The Project Gutenberg EBook of London and its Environs Described, vol. 6
(of 6), by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: London and its Environs Described, vol. 6 (of 6)
       Containing an Account of Whatever is Most Remarkable for
       Grandeur, Elegance, Curiosity or Use, in the City and in
       the Country Twenty Miles Round it

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: January 31, 2020 [EBook #61279]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LONDON AND ITS ENVIRONS, VOL 6 ***




Produced by Brian Wilsden and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)





Transcriber’s Note: Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.




  LONDON
  AND ITS
  ENVIRONS
  DESCRIBED.

  VOL. VI.




  LONDON
  AND ITS
  ENVIRONS
  DESCRIBED.

  CONTAINING

  An Account of whatever is most remarkable
  for GRANDEUR, ELEGANCE, CURIOSITY
  or USE,

  In the CITY and in the COUNTRY
  Twenty Miles round it.

  COMPREHENDING ALSO

  Whatever is most material in the History and Antiquities
  of this great Metropolis.

  Decorated and illustrated with a great Number of
  Views in Perspective, engraved from original
  Drawings, taken on purpose for this Work.

  Together with a PLAN of LONDON,
  A Map of the ENVIRONS, and several other
  useful CUTS.

  VOL. VI.

  LONDON:
  Printed for R. and J. DODSLEY in Pall-Mall.

  M DCC LXI.




LONDON AND ITS ENVIRONS DESCRIBED, &c.


  † _Those with this mark generally derived their name from the ground
       landlord, who built the street, lane, or alley, &c._
  * _From signs._
  ☐ _From neighbouring places, as churches, &c._
  ‡ _From trees formerly growing there._
  ║ _From ridicule._
  § _From their situation, as backwards, forwards, with respect to
      other streets._


SIO


SION COLLEGE, adjoining to St. Alphage’s church, London Wall, was
founded for the improvement of the London clergy, and situated upon the
ruins of Elsing Spital, which consisted of a college for a warden, four
priests and two clerks, and an hospital for an hundred old, blind and
poor persons of both sexes.

This college owes its foundation to Dr. Thomas White, Vicar of St.
Dunstan’s in the West, who, among other charities, left 3000_l._ to
purchase and build a college for the use of the London clergy, with
almshouses for twenty poor people, ten men and ten women. He also gave
160_l._ a year for ever to the college and almshouses, 120_l._ for the
support of the alms-people, and 40_l._ _per annum_, for the expences of
the foundation.

The ground was purchased in 1627; but the library was not appointed
by the founder; for a clergyman observing to Mr. Simson one of Dr.
White’s executors, that a convenient library might be erected over
the almshouse, which was then building, Mr. Simson took the hint, and
erected it at his own expence.

The work being finished, in prosecution of the will, a charter was
procured under the great seal of England in the sixth year of King
Charles I. for incorporating the clergy of London, by which all the
rectors, vicars, lecturers and curates, are constituted fellows of
the college, and out of the incumbents, are annually to be elected on
Tuesday three weeks after Easter, as governors, a president, two deans,
and four assistants, who are to meet quarterly, to hear a Latin sermon,
and afterwards to be entertained at dinner in the college hall, at the
charge of the foundation. And in 1632 the governors and clergy being
summoned, agreed upon a common seal, which had the good Samaritan, with
the inscription _Vade & fac similiter_, and round it _Sigillum Collegii
de Sion Londini_.

The books were given by many benefactors, whose names were preserved in
a large vellum book, and the library much augmented by that of the old
cathedral of St. Paul’s, which was brought to the college in the year
1647.

However the dreadful fire of London, which consumed so many other
public structures, also destroyed this, and burnt a third part of the
books, with the almshouses, several convenient chambers for students,
besides those reserved for the meeting of the governors and fellows,
and for the clerk and the library-keeper, to dwell in. The whole
edifice was however afterwards rebuilt, except the chambers for the
students; that part of the ground, being let out on building leases:
the expence of erecting the library and almshouse amounted to above
1300_l._ and the hall with the other buildings to 2000_l._ more.

The edifice is extremely plain, and consists of brick buildings
surrounding a square court.

Since the fire the library has been enriched by many benefactions;
particularly by a part of the books of the jesuits seized in the year
1679, and by the Lord Berkley’s giving half his uncle Cooke’s books to
the library: One gentleman gave the interest of 100_l._ to be annually
laid out in books, and another 20_l._ _per annum_ for the same use,
payable by the leatherseller’s company: there are also a great number
of other benefactors to the library, whose names are set down in a book
kept for that purpose.

In order to augment the library it has been also proposed, that every
author be desired to give one copy of every book he publishes; and also
every minister at his admission into a living, that every governor at
his admission give one of at least 10_s._ value; and that the booksellers
give one copy of every book they cause to be printed.

The library is surveyed twice a year: and had at first a librarian, an
under librarian, and an ostiary: but now one serves for all.

The almshouse consists of twenty rooms, for ten men within the college,
and ten women without it. Four of whom are nominated by the city of
Bristol, where Mr. White was born; eight by the merchant taylor’s
company, six by the parish of St. Dunstan, where he was minister
forty-nine years; and two by St. Gregory’s parish, where he had lived
about twenty years: except any of the kindred of either of his wives
appeared, who were first to be considered; but these were not to exceed
four at a time. The alms-people formerly received 6_l._ a year; but the
lowering of rents has caused their allowance to be somewhat lessened.

SION _court_, Philip lane, London wall.

SION HOUSE, one of the seats of the right Honourable the Earl and
Countess of Northumberland, stands upon the banks of the Thames,
between Brentford and Isleworth in Middlesex, and opposite to the
King’s Garden at Richmond. It is called Sion from a monastery of the
same name, which was founded by Henry the Vth. in 1414, very near the
place where the house now stands, and was endowed with 1000 marks a
year, for the maintenance of sixty Nuns (including the Abbess and
twenty-five men), and was dedicated to St. Saviour and St. Bridget;
from the latter of whom the Nuns, &c. were called Bridgettines, and
were of the order of Augustines, as reformed by some new regulations
made by the aforesaid Bridget.

Sion was almost one of the first of the monasteries that was
suppressed by Henry the VIIIth, perhaps not on account of any greater
irregularities of behaviour, which had been discovered in it by the
visitors, but because the members of that society had been remarkably
favourable to the King’s declared enemies, and particularly to the
maid of Kent; for she met with a very friendly reception amongst them,
and so far excited the curiosity of the neighbourhood, as to induce
the famous Sir Thomas More to have two private conferences with her
at this very place. When the monastery was suppressed, its revenues
according to Speed, amounted to 1944_l._ 11_s._ 11_d._ ¾, and on
account of its fine situation, it was not sold or given immediately
to any court-favourite, but appropriated to the King’s own use. And
accordingly we find, that when the corpse of Henry the VIIIth. was
to be removed from Westminster to Windsor to be interred, it laid
the first night, not at Richmond as is commonly supposed, but at
Sion; which by this means became the scene in which a prophecy was
supposed to be fulfilled. For Father Peto, preaching before the King at
Greenwich in 1534, told him that the dogs would lick his blood as they
had done Ahab’s. Now as the King died of a dropsical disorder, and had
been dead a fortnight before he was removed to Sion, it so happened
that some corrupted matter of a bloody colour ran through the coffin at
that place. Whereupon the incident, though only a natural consequence
of the aforesaid circumstances, was misconstrued into a completion of
Peto’s pretended prophecy, and considered as a piece of divine justice,
inflicted upon the King for having forced the Bridgettines from their
religious sanctuary.

[Illustration:
       _S. Wale delin._      _Elliot sculp._
     _Sion House, view’d from Richmond Gardens._]

In the next reign the monastery was given by the King to his uncle
the Duke of Somerset the Protector, who in 1547 (as is generally
supposed) began to build Sion House, and finished the shell of it, as
it now remains, excepting a few alterations, which will be mentioned
in their proper places. The house is built on the very spot where
the church belonging to the monastery formerly stood, and is a very
large, venerable, and majestic structure, built of white stone, in
the form of a hollow square, so that it has four external, and as
many internal fronts; the latter of which surround a square court in
the middle. The roof is flat, covered with lead, and surrounded with
indented battlements, like the walls of a fortified city. Upon every
one of the four outward angles of the roof, there is a square turret,
flat-roofed, and embattled like the other parts of the building. The
house is three stories high, and the east-front, which faces the
Thames, is supported by arches, forming a fine piazza, as it appears
in the print. The gardens formed two square areas, enclosed with high
walls before the east and west fronts, and were laid out and finished
in a very grand manner, but being made at a time when extensive views
were judged to be inconsistent with that solemn reserve and stately
privacy affected by the great, they were so situated as to deprive the
house of every beautiful prospect which the neighbourhood afforded.
None of them at least could be seen from the lower apartments. To
remedy in some measure that inconvenience, the Protector built a very
high triangular terrace in the angle between the walls of the two
gardens; and this it was that his enemies afterwards did not scruple
to call a fortification, and to insinuate that it was one proof,
amongst many others, which they alledged of his having formed a design
very dangerous to the liberties of the King and people. Such was the
State of the gardens as finished by the Protector. After his attainder
and execution on Jan. 22, 1552, Sion was confiscated to the crown.
Whereupon the furniture of the apartments, in which the Duke had lived
(and they were probably a part of the old monastery) were given to Sir
John Wroth the Keeper, and the new house, that is, the present house at
Sion, to the Duke of Northumberland, which then became the residence of
his son the Lord Guilford and his daughter-in-law the unfortunate Lady
Jane Grey. The Duke being beheaded August 22, 1553, Sion house once
more reverted to the crown. Three years after this, Queen Mary restored
it to the Bridgettines; and it remained in their possession until
the society was expelled by Queen Elizabeth in the first year of her
reign. Such of the Nuns as persisted in their errors carried away their
portable treasure, and settled successively at Zurickzee in Zealand, at
Mechlin, Roan, and lastly at Lisbon, where the society still subsists.
Some years after this second dissolution, which Sion had undergone as
a monastery, it was granted by a lease of a long term to Henry Earl of
Northumberland, who, in consideration of his eminent services to the
government, was permitted to enjoy it by paying a very small rent as an
acknowledgement, and even that, when offered, was generally remitted.

King James the First considered his lordship no longer as a tenant,
but gave Sion to him and his heirs for ever. Many improvements were
made in his time; for it appears from one of his lordship’s letters
to the King in 1613, that he had laid out 9000_l._ in the house and
gardens; which sum was probably expended in finishing them according
to the Protector’s plan. His son Algernon, afterwards appointed Lord
high Admiral of England, succeeded to the estate in November 1632.
He employed Inigo Jones to new face the inner court, to make many
alterations in the apartments, and to finish the great hall in the
manner in which it at present appears.

It must not be omitted in the history of this place, that the Dukes of
York, and Gloucester, and the Princess Elizabeth were sent hither by an
order of the parliament agreed upon August 27, 1646, and according to
Lord Clarendon were treated by the Earl and Countess of Northumberland
in all respects as was most suitable to their birth. The unhappy
King frequently visited them at Sion in 1647, and thought it a very
great alleviation of his misfortunes to find his children so happy in
their confinement. The Duke of Gloucester and the Princess Elizabeth
continued at Sion till 1649, at which time the Earl resigned them to
the care of his sister the Countess of Leicester.

May 30th 1682, Charles Duke of Somerset married the Lady Elizabeth
Percy, the only daughter and heiress of Josceline Earl of
Northumberland, by which means Sion and the immense estate of the
Percies became his Grace’s property. The Duke and Duchess lent this
house at Sion to the Princess of Denmark, who honoured it with her
residence during the time of a misunderstanding which arose between her
royal highness and her sister Queen Mary.

Upon the death of Charles Duke of Somerset, December 2, 1748. Algernon
Earl of Hertford, his only surviving son succeeded to the title and a
vast estate, and soon after gave Sion to his daughter and son-in-law,
the present Countess and Earl of Northumberland, to whose fine taste
and liberality are owing the many and great improvements which have
made the gardens at Sion so universally admired.

The old Gardens, as we have already observed, were indeed very grand
and magnificent according to the fashion of the age in which they
were made, but, in consequence of the taste that then prevailed, they
deprived the lower apartments of almost every advantage of prospect,
which the fine situation of Sion house naturally affords. To make
the necessary alterations required nothing less than his Lordship’s
generosity. Accordingly the high triangular terrace, which the
Protector had raised at a great expence, was removed, the walls of the
old gardens were taken down, and the ground before the house levelled,
and it now forms a fine lawn extending from Isleworth to Brentford. By
these means also a beautiful prospect is opened into the King’s gardens
at Richmond, as well as up and down the Thames. Towards the Thames the
lawn is bounded by an ha-ha, and a meadow; which his lordship ordered
to be cut down into a gentle slope, so that the surface of the water
may now be seen even from the lowest apartments and the gardens. In
consequence of these improvements, the most beautiful piece of scenery
imaginable is formed before two of the principal fronts, for even the
Thames itself seems to belong to the gardens, and the different sorts
of vessels, which successively sail as it were through them, appear to
be the property of their noble proprietor.

The house stands nearly in the middle point of that side of the lawn,
which is the farthest from the Thames, and communicates with Isleworth
and Brentford, either by means of the lawn or a fine gravel walk, which
in some places runs along the side, and in others through the middle
of a beautiful shrubbery; so that even in the most retired parts of
this charming maze, where the prospect is most confined, almost the
whole vegetable world rises up as it were in miniature around you, and
presents you with every foreign shrub, plant, and flower, which can be
adopted by the soil of this climate. His Lordship has not only thus
improved the ground where the old gardens stood, but has also made a
very large addition to it, and separated the two parts by making a new
serpentine river. It communicates with the Thames, is well stored with
all sorts of river fish, and can be emptied and filled by means of a
sluice, which is so contrived as to admit the fish into the new river,
but to prevent their returning back again into the Thames. His Lordship
has also built two bridges, which form a communication between the two
gardens, and has erected in that, which lies near Brentford, a stately
doric column; upon the top of which is a fine proportioned statue of
Flora, so judiciously placed as to command as it were a distinct view
of the situation over which she is supposed to preside.

[Illustration:
          _S. Wale delin._      _E. Rooker sculp._
    _Sion House, view’d from opposite Isleworth Church._]

The kitchen gardens are very large, lie at a very proper distance from
the house, and contain every thing, as an hot-house, fire-walls, &c.
The greenhouse is a very neat building with a gothic front, designed
by his Lordship in so light a style as to be greatly admired. The back
and end walls of it are the only remains of the old monastery. This
building stands near a circular bason of water, well stored with gold
and silver fish; and in the middle of the bason is a spouting fountain,
which is well supplied and plays without intermission.

What has hitherto been said is only an imperfect account of the several
steps pursued in the planning and finishing of the gardens; to which we
must add, that his lordship has also made many considerable alterations
in the apartments of the east-front over the long gallery, and, as
we are informed, intends to make many more in the other parts of the
house, as he has lately done in the approach to it.

To conduct (as it were) the reader through the rooms would be a task
too difficult to be executed in an intelligible manner; however we
cannot help taking notice of the great gallery, which extends the whole
length of the east-front over the arcades, and of that immense quantity
of old china vases, of different forms and sizes, which are crowded
together in almost every apartment.

We must also inform the reader that many fine prospects may be seen
from the leads on the top of the house; for they command a view of the
country to the distance of twelve or fourteen miles, and consequently
the greatest part of London may be seen from them. To these
observations we must add, that the gardens, when viewed from the top of
the house, form a finer landskip than can easily be conceived.

In the history of Sion we should be guilty of an unpardonable omission,
did we not mention the pedigree picture, which is perhaps one of the
greatest curiosities of its kind in England, and exhibits the noble
and royal connections of the Percies; all which are now united in the
present Countess of Northumberland, whose many virtues are an ornament
to that high station of life, which has been for many centuries enjoyed
by her illustrious progenitors.


SIR WILLIAM WARREN’S _square_, Wapping dock.†


SIX BELLS _alley_, Foster lane, Cheapside.*


SIX BELLS _court_, Six Bells alley.*


SIX CLERKS OFFICE, in Chancery lane. This is an office in chancery,
and these six clerks are next in degree to the twelve masters of that
court. They inroll commissions, pardons, patents, warrants, &c. that
have passed the seal.

Under these six clerks are sixty other clerks, ten to each of the six;
who with their under clerks dispatch the business of this office; there
are also attornies for plaintiffs and defendants in causes depending in
this court. _Chamberlain’s present State._


SIX GARDEN’S _court_, Paul’s alley Barbican.


SIX PENNY RECEIVER’S OFFICE, on Tower Hill. Here six pence a month is
paid by all seamen, both in the royal navy and merchants service, for
the benefit of Greenwich hospital. The principal officers here are, a
receiver who has 300_l._ a year; an accomptant who has 200_l._ a year;
and a comptroller who has also 200_l._ a year.


SIZE _yard_, Whitechapel.


SKIN MARKET, 1. Bank-side, Southwark: 2. in a square behind Wood’s
close, where great quantities of sheep-skins are sold.


SKIN MARKET _yard_, Bank-side Southwark.


SKINNER _street_, Bishopsgate Street, without.


SKINNER STREET _passage_, leading to the above street.


SKINNERS, a society incorporated by letters patent granted by Edward
III. in the year 1327, by the following singular title, _The Master
and Wardens of the guild or fraternity of the Body of Christ of the
Skinners of London_: which was confirmed by Henry VI. in the year 1438,
whereby every person admitted to the freedom of this company is to be
presented to the Lord Mayor: and by these grants the corporation was
restrained from making by-laws.

The government of this company is vested in a matter, four wardens
and sixty assistants, with a livery of one hundred and thirty-seven
members, who on their admission, pay a fine of 15_l._

The members of this company pay no quarterage, which is owing to the
great estates they are possessed of; out of which, according to the
wills of the respective donors, they annually pay about 700_l._ to
charitable uses.

They have a very handsome hall on Dowgate hill; the hall-room is neatly
wainscotted with oak, and the parlour with cedar.


SKINNERS _rents_, 1. Old Market lane, Ratcliff: 2. Perewinkle street,
Ratcliff cross.


SKY _yard_, Swan yard.


SLAUGHTERHOUSE _alley_, Spitalfields Market.


SLAUGHTERHOUSE _yard_, Fashion street, Spitalfields.


SLAUGHTER’S _court_, Blue Anchor alley, Rosemary lane.†


SLEEP’S _alley_, Islington Road, St. John’s street.†


SLIPPER _court_, Hand alley, Petticoat lane, Whitechapel.


SLOANE’S MUSEUM and LIBRARY. See the article BRITISH MUSEUM.


SLOP _alley_, Gray’s Inn lane.


SLUCE _street_, Rotherhith.


SMALLCOAL _alley_, 1. Brick lane, Spitalfields: 2. Fashion street,
Artillery lane, Spitalfields: 3. Rupert street: 4. St. John’s street
Smithfield.


SMALL POX HOSPITAL, in Cold Bath Fields, is a very plain neat
structure. The centre which projects a little from the rest of the
building, is terminated on the top by an angular pediment, on the apex
of which is placed a vase upon a small pediment.

This excellent charity was instituted in the year 1746, supported by a
subscription then made by several noblemen, gentlemen and ladies, who
were desirous that a charity useful in itself, and so beneficial to the
public, might be begun near this great metropolis, there not being any
hospital of this kind in Europe.

The relief of the necessitous under that severe, nauseous, and frequent
distemper, the small-pox, is a work of charity so evidently attended
with many beneficial circumstances, as well to the public as to the
unhappy objects, that it is in reality not a little strange, that the
establishing a fund for such a charity should be a design of no longer
standing.

It is universally agreed, that amongst all distempers, to which
Providence has made the human body liable, there is none so afflicting,
so alarming, or which demands such careful, speedy, and continual
assistance, as the small-pox; to which the inferior sort of people are
at least equally liable with those in a higher sphere of life, though
utterly unable to support themselves under so dreadful a malady, or to
procure the necessary means for their recovery.

As this disease is so frightful, even in its first appearance, and
at the same time contagious, and almost inevitable, families of all
degrees are thrown into the utmost confusion, when it invades any
person amongst them, let his or her station be what it will. To keep
a servant in such a condition is, generally speaking, exceedingly
inconvenient: to thrust them out of doors under such circumstances,
always inhuman, commonly fatal. How agreeable, therefore, must the
information prove to all considerate and charitable persons, that for
removing of these difficulties, for securing private families, and
for the preservation of the wretched individuals labouring under this
disease, there is established, an hospital for the small-pox, where
persons of both sexes, and of all ages, may be carefully provided for,
both as to physic and diet, and properly attended in that calamitous
condition; and this at a very easy expence to the governors, who by
their charitable contributions support the fund for so glorious, and so
compassionate an undertaking, which, only to mention, is to recommend.
A needless pomp of words would rather obscure, than illustrate this
design; the utility and humanity of which, all, who have the smallest
attention or tenderness, cannot fail to comprehend.

As what has been said sufficiently shews, how well adapted a charity
this is, in respect to such as are afflicted with this disease in the
natural way; so the other part of the scheme, which has a tendency
to preserve our species from the ravages of this infectious malady,
by rendering it less malignant and less destructive, in the way of
inoculation, deserves likewise public approbation and effectual
encouragement.

The objections that have been made against this practice, are
founded rather in an aversion to novelty, however useful, than in an
adherence to reason and experience. The strange imputation that a well
established method of preserving many lives, is an attempt upon the
prerogative of the Almighty, will make no impression upon any, who
consider that the same thing may be urged against exhibiting medicines
at all, either sanative or preventive, and the extraordinary methods
that are often necessary to be made use of, to stop the progress of any
particular disease.

The benefits of inoculation appear every year, by fresh trials, greater
and more certain. This dreadful, this destructive distemper is thereby
rendered mild and manageable, and becomes rather a purgation of the
body from the latent seeds of an expected disease, than creating a
disease itself. It delivers people from those apprehensions, with
which, till they have had the small-pox, they are always haunted. It
frees them from the objections, that are continually made to their
being received into any family, while they remain exposed to that
disease in the natural way. It gives them courage to enter into the
service of their country, either by land or sea; and protects them,
while in that service, from the risque of being carried off, for want
of those accommodations, which camps and ships rarely supply.

To all these, if we add the general and great consideration of
preserving so many lives, which may evidently arise from these
different ways of having the disease, (for upon a general calculation,
twenty-five or thirty die out of one hundred and fifty patients,
having the distemper in the natural way, and one only out of this
number, when inoculated,) it will appear, that this is a thing of very
high importance; and that it is not easy to name an undertaking more
laudable in itself, or more beneficial in its consequences, than the
making a provision, that those, who really stand in the greatest need
of this preservative, and yet from their low, though useful stations
in life, are precluded from it, should be rescued from a condition,
equally injurious to them and to society.

But as the world will be often divided in sentiments, in matters of
such a nature; so, by the constitution of this charity, due care is
taken, that the intentions of such well disposed persons, as shall
contribute to any branch of it, shall be punctually answered. For they
may direct their benefactions to be bestowed upon such persons only,
as are infected with the natural small-pox; or, if they judge the
promoting inoculation the more beneficial, they may confine their gifts
thereto; or, if given without any distinction, it will be applied to
the general fund, both for natural small-pox and for inoculation.

To these considerations, it is proper to add one circumstance, which,
duly considered, cannot but have great weight with all, who have any
feeling for their fellow-creatures in distress; which is, that it is an
hospital, in aid of all other hospitals, being calculated, by its very
constitution, to receive those miserable creatures, whom the rules of
all other charities expresly and prudentially exclude.

As this useful and necessary charity loudly calls for further
assistance, may it not be justly hoped, that many pious and
compassionate hands will bountifully contribute to the support,
continuance, and enlargement of a design, which reason, good policy,
humanity, and religion so powerfully recommend?

This hospital consists of two houses, at a due distance from each other
in airy situations.

That for preparing the patients for inoculation is in the Lower street,
Islington; and that for receiving them, when the disease appears, and
for the reception of patients in the natural way, is in Cold Bath
fields.

Stated general courts are held half yearly, to wit, in April and
October, or within ten days before or after each of those months;
notice of which is sent to each governor, as well as publicly
advertised.

Two presidents, four vice-presidents, and a treasurer, are annually
elected out of the governors.

A house-committee of thirteen governors is chosen half yearly, who meet
the first Thursday in the month at ten in the forenoon at the hospital
in Cold Bath fields, and the other Thursdays at Child’s coffee-house
in St. Paul’s church-yard, at five in the afternoon, to transact the
business of the hospital; at which meetings all governors present have
a vote, and their attendance will be esteemed a favour.

A Physician and Surgeon attend the hospital without fee or reward.

There are a Secretary, two Apothecaries, a Messenger, Matrons, proper
Nurses, &c.——No fee, reward, or gratuity, to be taken from any
patients, tradesmen, or other persons, on account of the hospital, on
pain of expulsion.

Thirty guineas constitutes a governor for life; five guineas _per
annum_, a governor during such subscription, or after two such annual
subscriptions any person, by paying not less than twenty guineas, on or
before the fourteenth of October, 1760, becomes a governor for life.
Smaller benefactions are accepted with gratitude.

Every governor has a vote at all general courts and committees, and is
entitled to have one patient in each house at a time. Ladies have the
same privilege, and may vote, by proxies, at all elections.

Every annual subscriber is entitled to have one patient in the hospital
for the natural way at a time, provided there are three beds for men,
and two for women patients, in reserve, for governors recommendations.

A committee of accompts of seven governors is annually held between
Lady day and Michaelmas, who meet at least once a quarter to examine
and audit all tradesmens bills, which are afterwards ordered by the
house-committee for payment.

The accounts are regularly kept, and open at all times for the
inspection of the governors.

Two governors are appointed visitors, by the house-committee, for six
months, who frequently attend the hospital for inoculation; and also
the hospital for the natural way, alternately; to inspect into the
conduct and management of the officers, servants, and others therein.

Every person destitute of friends, or money, and labouring under this
melancholy disease, or desirous of being inoculated, is a proper object
of this charity.

Patients in the natural way are received every day; but enquiry must
first be made if there is room to prevent the danger and expence of a
disappointment.

Patients for inoculation are received about eight times in the year,
of which timely notice is given in the Public Advertiser, men and boys
at one time, and women and girls at another, alternately; and the
governors are desired to be careful in recommending none but those who
are really necessitous, as a want of that care will be an injury to
proper objects. Governors are desired to send their recommendations
as soon as signed to the apothecary at the house of preparation, in
Islington, which will be by him immediately entered on the books, and
when the turn of such person, so recommended, comes for admittance, a
letter will be sent for his or her attendance, which, if punctually
observed, they will be admitted.

If any persons omit to attend according to their turn on the admission
days, they will be excluded, and cannot have the benefit of this
charity, without first obtaining a new recommendation.

There is no charge attending the admission of patients for inoculation,
but patients in the natural way, a deposit of one pound and six pence,
to answer the expences of burial in case of death, or to be returned to
the person who paid the same, when discharged the hospital.

For the sake of the patients, and for fear of spreading this dangerous
infection, it is necessary to forbid strangers to visit them; and
therefore, it is hoped that the affection or curiosity of particular
persons will not be offended at this unavoidable precaution.

Proper dresses are provided for the patients, and worn by them in the
hospital, while their own cloaths are fumigated with brimstone, which
is always done before their discharge.

The sums received for the support of this hospital since its foundation
in 1746, amount to 18,926_l._ And there have been received into the
house for the natural way from the 26th of September 1746, to the 25th
of March 1759, 3946 patients, of which 2916 have been cured; A very
great number considering the fatality of this distemper, and that most
of them were adults, often admitted after great irregularities, and
some when past cure.

But what appears much more extraordinary, out of 131 who were
inoculated before the 31st of December 1751, only two died, one by
worms, who did not appear to have them before the inoculation, and
the other apprehended to have first caught the distemper in the
natural way. From that period till the 25th of March 1759, the number
of inoculated amounts to 1567, out of which only four have died. An
astonishing proof of the advantages of inoculation! _From the account
published by the governors._


SMALL’S _rents_, Petticoat lane, Whitechapel.†


SMART’S _key_, Billingsgate.†


SMART’S _rents_, Lamb alley, St. Giles’s.†


SMITHFIELD, or WEST SMITHFIELD, though the epithet West is never used
but to distinguish it from East Smithfield near Little Tower Hill. This
is the greatest market for black cattle, sheep and horses, in Europe;
and also a considerable market for hay and straw; for the sale of which
it was famous five hundred years ago. _Maitland_ derives its name from
its being originally a _smooth_ or level field; and observes that it
was anciently much larger than at present, it being greatly diminished
by the buildings with which it is inclosed, the whole west side
extended as far as the sheep market does at present, and was called
_the Elms_, from the many elm-trees growing there; this was the place
of execution for offenders in the year 1219, and it seems long before.

King Henry II. granted to the priory of St. Bartholomew the privilege
of a fair to be kept annually at Bartholomew tide, on the eve, the day,
and the morrow, to which the clothiers of England, and the drapers of
London repaired, and had their booths and standings in the church-yard
within the priory, which was separated from Smithfield only by
walls and gates, that were locked every night and watched, for the
safety of the goods deposited there; and the narrow street or lane
afterwards built where the cloth was sold, still retains the name of
cloth fair.

This fair, which was appointed to be kept three days, was at length
prolonged to a fortnight, and became of little other use but for idle
youth, and loose people to resort to it, upon which it was again
reduced to the original standard; and the booths, for drolls and plays
in the middle of Smithfield, by the falling of which many persons had
lost their lives, were ordered to be no longer permitted.

Smithfield was also used in very early times for jousts and tournaments,
to which the King and nobility resorted, of which we find upon record
several instances in the reigns of Edward III. Richard II. Henry IV.
Henry V. Henry VI. and Edward IV.

In short, in the middle part of Smithfield, and in the centre of the
space now enclosed with rails, many martyrs were burnt at the stake,
for steadily adhering to the dictates of their own consciences, and in
defence of the doctrines of the reformation, during the cruel reign of
Mary.

Smithfield is surrounded by many good houses; but they are far from
being regular and uniform. The author of _the Review of the public
Buildings_, observes, that this vast area, is capable of great beauty;
but is at present destitute of all; and a scene of filth and nastiness.

“’Tis true, the use which is made of it as a market, he adds, is
something of an excuse for it, and in some degree attones for the want
of that decency that would improve it so much: yet ’tis my opinion,
that ways and means might be found to make it tolerable at least, and
an obelisk, pyramid or statue in the centre, defended with handsome and
substantial rails, would go a great way in so desirable a project.”

Indeed something of this kind has been frequently proposed, and it
has been often represented to the public, that it would be proper to
raise a monument on the spot where the stake was fixed for the martyrs,
representing the cruelty of popish persecution, adorned with proper
relivoes and inscriptions.


_East_ SMITHFIELD. See the article EAST.


SMITHFIELD _bars_, at the north end of Smithfield, by St. John’s street.


SMITH’S ALMSHOUSE, on St. Peter’s hill near Thames street was founded
by Mr. David Smith embroiderer to Queen Elizabeth, in the year 1584,
and consists of six rooms for the habitation of so many poor widows
turned of fifty-six: but the old structure being destroyed by the fire
of London in 1666, it was rebuilt by Sir Thomas Fitch, and the charge
of maintaining it committed to Christ’s hospital, from which each of
the alms-women annually receive 1 _l._ 9_s._ 4_d._ and also from the
company of embroiderers the annual 1_l._ 14_s._ 6_d._ each, left by the
founder’s daughter, as an addition to the foundation. _Maitland._


SMITH’S _alley_, 1. Joyners street, by Tooley street, Southwark.†
2. King’s street, Westminster.† 3. Ropemaker’s fields, Limehouse.†


SMITH’S _court_, 1. Aldersgate street.† 2. Brackley street, Bridgewater
Gardens.† 3. Fashion street, Spitalfields.† 4. Great Windmill street,
Picadilly.† 5. Holbourn.†


SMITH’S _passage_, in the Curtain, Nortain Falgate.†


SMITH’S _rents_, 1. Bank-side, Southwark.† 2. Barnaby street,
Southwark.† 3. Catharine Wheel alley.† 4. Five Feet lane.† 6. St.
John’s street, Smithfield.† 7. Kent street, Southwark.† 8. Petty
France, Westminster.†


SMITH’S _square_, Millbank, Westminster.†


SMITH’S _street_, Marsham street, Westminster.†


SMITH’S _yard_, 1. Blue Anchor alley.† 2. Fleet lane, by Fleet
Market.† 3. Maiden lane.† 4. Ratcliff Highway.† 5. Ropemaker’s
field, Limehouse.†


SMOCK _alley_, 1. Hockley in the Hole: 2. Petticoat lane, Whitechapel.


SNADE’S _court_, Brick street.†


SNADER’S _court_, Moorfields.†


SNART’S _rents_, Goswell street, Aldersgate street.†


SNOW _fields_, Barnaby street.


SNOW _hill_, extends from the upper end of the Little Old Bailey to
Holbourn bridge.


SNOW _street_, Snow fields.


SNOW’S _rents_, white Lion yard.†


SOAPMAKER’S. See SOPEMAKERS.


SOCIETY, _for propagating_ CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE, in Bartlet’s buildings,
Holbourn. This society which was founded in the year 1699, consists of
several bishops, dignified clergymen, and persons of piety, rank, and
fortune, who unite their endeavours, in order to diffuse a spirit of
religion among the people; by dispersing little printed books among the
poor, among which are small books for the use of seamen and soldiers;
books of preparation for receiving the holy sacrament; and others
against profaneness and debauchery.

They have bought a great number of useful books for furnishing our
plantations with parochial libraries; and used means for providing
catechetical libraries in the smaller parishes of this kingdom,
to enable the inferior clergy the better to perform their duty of
catechizing; and the greater parishes with learned libraries for the
use of the poorer clergy. They have particularly applied themselves
to the setting up of schools for the education of children, and
work-houses for the employment of the poor.

This society in 1710, assisted the Danish missionaries at Tranquebar,
and afterwards at Madras in the East Indies, for the conversion of the
pagan inhabitants.

In the year 1720, they extended their regard to the Greek church in
Palestine, Syria, Mesopotamia, Arabia, and Egypt, and having printed
an edition in Arabic on a new set of types, caused ten thousand
copies of the new testament, six thousand psalters, and five thousand
catechetical instructions, with an abridgement of the history of the
bible annexed, to be dispersed through those countries, and in Persia.

In the year 1732, the society raised collections for the persecuted
protestants of Saltzburgh, made large remittances to Germany; and some
time after sent above two hundred protestant emigrants to Georgia, who
built and settled at Ebenezar.

In 1743, they undertook a new edition of the bible in Welch, with the
common prayer and psalms in metre, and in 1748 finished an impression
of fifteen thousand copies; which they speedily dispersed; but that
large impression falling far short of the demand for it: the society
printed another edition of the bible, consisting of the same number of
copies; and also five thousand of the new testament, and as many common
prayer books in the same language: by which means the Welch had the
blessing of the holy scriptures in their own tongue, wherein alone they
could possibly read them, and that at an easier expence than the people
of England enjoy it.

This society meets weekly to deliberate upon what appears most
expedient for carrying on their pious intentions. _Stow’s Survey, last
edit_.


SOCIETY _for propagating the_ GOSPEL IN FOREIGN PARTS, at the chapter
house in St. Paul’s church-yard. This society was established by
letters patent granted in the 13th year of the reign of King William
III. by which the archbishop of Canterbury, and ninety-three of the
bishops, clergy, nobility and gentry were incorporated, and impowered
to purchase 2000_l._ _per annum_ inheritance, with goods and chattels of
any value: and allowed a common seal, which has the representation of a
ship under sail, making towards a foreign coast, where the natives near
the shore, stand with their hands stretched out, or lifted up, and some
on their knees: A minister in a gown, in the fore part of the ship, is
looking towards them, with the gospel open in his right hand; and in a
label in the middle of the seal are the words, _Transiens adjuva nos_.
The sun is represented shining; and round the edge are these words,
_Sigillum Societatis de promovendo Evangelio in partibus Transmarinis_.

This society has sent several ministers of the church of England to his
Majesty’s colonies in the West Indies, to instruct the English and such
Indians as live near them in the principles of the Christian religion;
and have dispersed throughout our plantations common prayer books, and
other devotional and practical tracts. They have also contributed to
the propagation of the gospel in Malabar, in the East Indies, and not
only sent thither an impression of the new testament in Portuguese, but
a printing press, types, and paper, together with a printer.

By their charter they are annually to meet upon the third Friday in
February in order to chuse a president, one or more vice-presidents,
a treasurer, or treasurers, two or more auditors, one secretary, and
such other officers, ministers, and servants, as should be thought
convenient for the ensuing year.

No act of the society is valid, unless the president, or vice
president, and seven others of the members be present, and consenting
thereto.

The society is every year to give an account in writing to the Lord
Chancellor, or Lord Keeper of the great seal, the Lord Chief Justice
of the King’s Bench, or the Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas,
or any two of them, of the several sums of money by them received and
laid out, and of the management and disposition of the revenues and
charities of the society.

The members of the society meet once a month or oftner at the late
archbishop Tenison’s library in St. Martin’s in the Fields, and several
committees are besides appointed to meet at the chapter house at St.
Paul’s. But their annual meeting on the third Friday in February is at
St. Mary le Bow church in Cheapside, at which time they have there an
anniversary sermon.


SOCIETY _for the_ REFORMATION OF MANNERS. This society began in the
year 1690, when five or six private gentlemen, members of the church of
England, meeting and consulting together of the most advisable methods
of putting the penal laws in execution against the profaneness and
other public vices, practiced openly in the streets, entered into a
fraternity for remedying these evils. This being afterwards made known
to the lords spiritual and temporal, and to the judges, a considerable
number approved of it under their hands; the society, which was
continually encreasing, was also countenanced by most of the bishops in
extraordinary circular letters printed in 1699; and one of the chief
ministers of state laying the affair before King William, he promised
the society his protection.

This design was, however, violently opposed by the champions and
advocates for debauchery; yet by the favour of the above Prince, and
his royal consort Queen Mary, the patronage of Queen Anne, and the
countenance of the clergy of the greatest figure in the church, it soon
met with prodigious success, and many virtuous and pious persons of the
several denominations readily united their endeavours, and joined in
the expences necessarily occasioned by putting the laws in execution
against vast numbers of the vicious and profane.

This society appoints and encourages constables and others to go about
the streets, markets, and other public places, to take up drunkards,
and profane swearers; to suppress lewd and disorderly houses, and to
prosecute, all who encourage tippling, or follow their professions on
the Lord’s day.

By the endeavours of this society many thousands of lewd and scandalous
persons have been brought to legal punishment: great numbers have
been convicted in the court of King’s Bench, and at the sessions, for
keeping houses of lewdness, and punished by fine and imprisonment, by
which means the streets have been much cleared of night-walkers, and
other public places of gangs of detestable sodomites. In short some
thousands of good books have been dispersed through the kingdom, and
put into the hands of the profane, the lewd and the vicious, which
in many instances have, by the divine blessing, produced a singular
reformation, even among those who seemed the most abandoned.

This society from time to time publish an account of the progress they
have made, by which it appears, that they have prosecuted above an
hundred thousand persons; and sermons are preached quarterly before the
members, by some of the most eminent preachers of this city, at Bow
church.

In short, what is most surprizing, the fame of this society, which
had so small a beginning, has produced amazing effects; after their
example, other societies of the same kind have arisen, not only in
the different parts of England and Scotland; but in several of our
plantations in America, in Holland, Germany, the several cantons of
Swisserland, the Grisons, in Sweden and Denmark: and the book which
contains an account of this society, has been translated into Latin,
French, High-Dutch, the Danish and Swedish languages.


SOHO, St. Giles’s.


SOHO SQUARE, or KING’S SQUARE, is of considerable extent, and has an
area surrounded with high palisado pales, enclosing a garden, in which
is a statue of King Charles II. standing upon a pedestal placed in the
midst of a small bason, at his Majesty’s feet lie the representations
of the four principal rivers, the Thames, Trent, Humber and Severn,
pouring out their waters. On the south side of this square are Frith
street and Greek street, on the east Sutton street, on the north
Charles street, and on the west, Denmark street.

There is not much taste or regularity in the Buildings of this square,
but the place, if it has nothing to excite our praise does not appear
to have any thing to provoke censure. My Lord Bateman’s house on the
south side is the most remarkable. It has the appearance of grandeur
and magnificence, and though it may have some defects, it has elegance
sufficient to make us excuse them.


SOMERSET HOUSE, on the south side of the Strand, near the new church,
is esteemed one of the royal palaces. It was built about the year 1549
by the Duke of Somerset, uncle to Edward VI. and protector of England,
who demolished the palaces of the bishops of Chester and Worcester,
an Inn of Chancery called Strand Inn, with the church of St. Mary le
Strand, that stood there, and building this palace with the materials,
it from him obtained the name of Somerset House. But the Duke soon
after being attainted, it fell to the crown, and has usually been
assigned for the residence of the Queen Dowager. In this palace Anne
of Denmark, King James the First’s Queen, kept her court, upon which
account, it was called Denmark house during that reign; but it soon
after recovered the name of its first founder.

The front towards the Strand is adorned with columns and other
decorations, which are much defaced by time and the smoke of the city,
the principal ornaments having mouldered away. This front together
with the quadrangle, seem to have been the first attempts to restore
the ancient architecture in England. In the middle of the Strand front
is a handsome gate which opens into the quadrangle, adorned with a
piazza, perhaps more in taste than any other in the kingdom of the same
antiquity, and the whole building on this side, has an air of grandeur.
But the most beautiful front is that towards the garden, situated upon
an elevation, part of which has been new built, with a fine piazza
and lofty apartments over it. This part of the building is however
irregular, and left unfinished; some of the old building being still
standing on that side. The garden is extremely pleasant, it leading
down to the Thames, from which it is separated by a parapet wall, and
there is here a handsome landing-place, with stairs, which lead up to
the principal walk to the palace.

This garden used to be public, and any person might have the liberty
of walking in it; but since the Foot-guards have been quartered in the
palace we are informed this privilege is discontinued, the passage to
the garden through the palace is extremely disagreeable, the broken
staircase, the appearance of the walls, the darkness, and the filth,
render it like the descent into a prison; however the pleasantness of
the garden, and the fine view it affords of the Thames, give a full
recompence for whatever is disagreeable in our way to it. The view
we have here given of Somerset house, is the garden front taken from
the Thames, and shews the whole extent of the front that way, and
consequently the old part of the building as well as the modern. The
appearance altogether is picturesque. The new part, which is of stone,
contains the royal apartments built by Inigo Jones, and was no doubt
only a part of his design, the stairs and gate to the water shewing
where he intended the center.

[Illustration:
    _S. Wale delin._      _E. Rooker sculp._
              _Somerset House._]

SOMERSET _stable yard_, a large yard to the west of Somerset house, in
which are coach-houses, stables and a guard-room, where a detachment of
foot guards do duty daily, as well as at Somerset house, to which it
belongs.


SOMERSET _stairs_, Strand.†


SOMERSET WATER-GATE _stairs_, Strand.†


SOMERSET _street_, Whitechapel.


SOMMER’S _key_, near Thames street.†


SOMMER’S _rents_, Old Gravel Lane, Ratcliff Highway.†


SOMMER’S _street_, Hockley in the Hole.†


SOPE _yard_, Harrow Corner Deadman’s Place.


SOPEMAKERS, a fraternity incorporated by letters patent granted by King
Charles I. in the year 1638. This company is governed by a master, two
wardens, and eighteen assistants; they have however neither livery nor
hall, and therefore, manage their affairs in Guildhall.


SOPER’S _alley_, Whitecross street, Cripplegate.†


SOPER’S _yard_, Harrow Corner, Deadman’s Place.†


SOUTHAMPTON _buildings_, 1. Chancery Lane: 2. in High Holbourn, where
the Bishop of Lincoln had his city mansion; but that edifice afterwards
coming to the Earls of Southampton, it was taken down, and on the site
thereof was erected the above buildings. _Stow’s Survey._


SOUTHAMPTON _court_, 1. Southampton Buildings: 2. Southampton row.


SOUTHAMPTON _row_, Queen’s square, Bloomsbury.


SOUTHAMPTON _street_, 1. High Holbourn: 2. in the Strand.


SOUTHAMPTON’S ALMSHOUSE, near Monmouth street. The ground upon which
this house stands, together with a piece of ground adjoining, were
granted by lease to the parish of St. Giles’s in the Fields, by the
Earl of Southampton, in the year 1656, for the use of the poor, for
the term of five hundred years. And towards the support of twenty poor
inhabitants, Henry Carter, in the year 1674, gave the sum of 50_l._ the
profits whereof to be destributed among them, out of which, and the
produce of the ground which is now built upon, each of the poor women
have an allowance of 2_l._ 8_s._ and twelve bushels of coals annually.
They also receive out of the Lady Dudly’s gift at Christmas and
Whitsuntide 20_s._ _Maitland._


SOUTHMOULTON _row_, David street.


SOUTHMOULTON _street_, Hanover square.


SOUTH SEA _alley_, in the Mint, Southwark.


SOUTH SEA COMPANY. This company had the following origin: in the
glorious and successful war against France, in the reign of Queen
Anne, due care was not taken of the regular payment of seamen employed
in the royal navy; for those necessitous and useful men, had tickets
granted them instead of pay; which they were frequently obliged to get
discounted at 40_l._ and sometimes 50_l._ _per cent._ to avaricious men,
who taking advantage of the necessities of those brave fellows, raised
great estates upon their ruin.

The debt due from the government upon this and other accounts
unprovided for by parliament, amounted to 9,177,967_l._ 15_s._ 4_d._ and
these people taking it into their hands, were incorporated by act
of parliament in the year 1710; the following year the company,
after the discharge of the debt due to them from the government, was
made perpetual; and in 1714, lending the government an additional
sum of 822,032_l._ 4_s._ 8_d._ the capital of the company was, by act of
parliament, enlarged to ten millions; for which the members received
six _per cent._ interest, or 600,000_l._ _per annum_.

But in 1720 an act of parliament was passed, by which the company
were granted the sole privilege of trading to the South Seas within
certain limits, and enabled to increase their capital, by redeeming
several of the public debts, but by the arts used on this occasion the
capital stock of the company was soon raised to thirty-three millions,
five hundred and forty-three thousand, two hundred and sixty-three
pounds. It would take up too much room were we to enter here into an
account of the measures by which this iniquitous scheme was carried on;
many wealthy persons lost their estates, and others acquired immense
fortunes; and, in short, a considerable number of the directors, were
obliged by parliament to refund their ill-gotten treasures.

By an act passed in the sixth year of the reign of his present Majesty,
it was enacted, that after the 24th of June 1733, the capital stock
of the company, which then amounted to 14,651,103_l._ 8_s._ 1_d._ and the
shares of the respective proprietors, should be divided into four
equal parts, three fourths of which should be converted into a joint
stock, attended with annuities, after the rate of 4 _per cent._ till
redemption by parliament, and should be called the new South Sea
annuities, and the other fourth part should remain in the company as
a trading capital stock, attended with the residue of the annuities
or funds payable at the Exchequer to the company till redemption, and
that the company’s accomptant should twice every year, at Christmas and
Midsummer, or within one month after, state an account of the company’s
affairs, which should be laid before the next general court, in order
to their declaring a dividend, but that such dividend should not exceed
4_l._ _per cent. per annum_, till their debts were discharged. That
the South Sea company, and their trading stock should, exclusively
from the new joint stock of annuities, be liable to all the debts and
incumbrances of the company; and that the company should cause to be
kept within the city of London, an office, and books, in which all
transfers of the new annuities, should be entered and signed by the
party making such transfer, or his attorney; and the person to whom
such transfer should be made, or his attorney, should underwrite his
acceptance, and no other method of transferring annuities should be
good in law. The annuities of this company are some of them reduced to
3_l._ 10_s._ _per cent._ and others to 3_l._

It is necessary to observe with respect to this company, that they
have never carried on any considerable trade; however by the assiento
contract they had for some years the privilege of furnishing the
Spaniards with negroe slaves for their mines and plantations in
America, and of sending a large ship annually with European goods,
consisting chiefly of our woollen manufactures, to the Spanish West
Indies; and for nine years they annually sent a small number of ships
to fish for Whales on the coast of Greenland. As they have now no
trade, they only receive interest for their capital, which is in the
hands of the government, and also 8000_l._ a year out of the treasury,
towards the expence attending the management of their affairs.

The hours of payment of dividends are from nine o’clock till eleven,
and the hours of transfer from twelve o’clock till one.

The days of transferring South Sea stock are Monday and Friday.

Old annuities Monday, Wednesday and Friday.

New annuities Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.

Three _per cent._ 1751, Tuesday and Thursday. Except on holidays, which
are in general the same as at the Bank.

The business of this company is managed by a governor, subgovernor,
deputy governor, and twenty-one directors, annually chosen before the
6th of February, by a majority of votes: such members of the company as
have 1000_l._ in the capital stock in their own names, having one vote;
such as have 3000_l._ two votes; such as have 5000_l._ three votes, and
such as have 10,000_l._ stock or more, four votes, and none above: but
no person can be governor, subgovernor, deputy governor, or director,
while governor, deputy governor, or director of the bank of England.

[Illustration:
    _S. Wale delin._      _J. Fougeron sculp._
             _South Sea House._]

SOUTH SEA HOUSE, a very neat brick building at the north-west corner of
Threadneedle street, opposite the church of St. Martin’s Outwich. In
this building the South Sea company transact their affairs.

The front is very large and plain, and is a modern edifice with stone
copings, rustic quoins, and window cases. The entrance has no relation
to it, and is much too fine and principal, a fault not often committed,
but is only so by being in the extreme; over the entrance is raised
a handsome well proportioned window, ornamented with rustic work, in
conformity to the angles of the building, and crowned with a pediment:
and on the inside of the gate is a handsome square court, surrounded
with a piazza formed by columns of the Doric order.


SOUTH SEA _court_, Lumbard street.


SOUTH SEA _passage_, Broad street, leading through the South Sea house
into Threadneedle street.


SOUTH SEA _yard_, Threadneedle street.☐


SOUTH _street_, 1. Audley street 2. Spitalfields market.§


SOUTH-WEST _yard_, Spitalfields market.§


SOUTHWARK, a considerable part of this great metropolis on the south
side of the Thames, consists of the parishes of St. Olave, St. Saviour,
St. George and St. Thomas, and for its extent and number of inhabitants
is inferior to few cities in England.

It is mentioned in history in the year 1052, when Earl Godwin arrived
there with a powerful fleet, and having cast anchor till the return of
the tide, passed London Bridge without opposition, in order to engage
the royal navy, which consisted of fifty ships of war, and then lay
opposite to Westminster; but matters being accommodated between the
King and Earl Godwin, the latter returned, and repassed the bridge,
which was then of wood.

Southwark was governed by its own bailiffs till the year 1327. The
city however found great inconveniences from its neighbourhood,
malifactors escaping thither out of the reach and cognizance of the
city magistrates. This made the city long desirous of getting Southwark
under her subjection, and a grant was made of that town to the city in
the last mentioned period, when the mayor of London was constituted
bailiff of Southwark, and impowered to govern it by his deputy.

The inhabitants some time after recovered their former privileges; but
in the fourth year of the reign of Edward VI. the crown granted it to
the city of London for the sum of 647_l._ 2_s._ 1_d._ and within about a
month after the passing of that patent, in consideration of the farther
sum of 500 marks, paid to the crown by the city, Southwark was made one
of the city wards, named Bridge Ward without, when the number of the
aldermen being increased from twenty-five to twenty-six, a new one was
chosen to govern that borough: In virtue of the above grant, Southwark
has ever since been subject to the Lord Mayor, who has under him a
steward and bailiff, the former of whom holds a court of record every
Monday at St. Margaret’s hill, for all debts, damages, and trespasses,
within his limits, and the Lord Mayor proclaims Southwark fair on the
19th of September.

There are five prisons in Southwark, the King’s Bench, just finished
in St. George’s fields; the Marshalsea; the New prison, which is the
county jail for felons; the Clinke, and the Compter: and also two
hospitals, that of St. Thomas, and Guy’s. All which see under their
respective names. And for the most remarkable passages in the history
of this borough, see the article LONDON.


SOUTHWICK’S _rents_, Bett’s street.†


SPARK’S _court_, Duke’s place, Aldgate.


SPARROW’S NEST _yard_, Oxford street.


SPAW _field_, a field near the New-river-head, Islington road: so
called from a famous mineral spring.


SPECTACLEMAKERS, a company incorporated by letters patent granted by
King Charles I. in the year 1630.

They are governed by a master, two wardens and fifteen assistants; but
have neither livery nor hall.


SPECTACLES _alley_, Shoe lane, Fleet street.*


MR. SPENCER’S. See GREEN-PARK.


SPICER _street_, Brick lane Spitalfields.†


SPINGEL’S _alley_, Cable street, Ragfair.†


SPINNERS _yard_, Windmill hill.†


SPIT _alley_, St. Giles’s pound.


SPITALFIELDS, a place of very considerable extent on the east side
of Bishopsgate street, formerly fields belonging to St. Mary Spital;
but now formed into a great number of streets, lanes, and alleys,
wherein the weaving business is carried to the greatest perfection by
the descendents of French refugees, especially silks, and the richest
brocades.


SPITALFIELDS _market_, by Spitalfields church, is a very great market
chiefly for roots and greens.


SPITAL _square_, Bishopsgate street without.


SPITAL SQUARE _passage_, Lamb street, Spitalfields.


SPITAL _street_, Pelham street, Spitalfields.


SPRAT’S ALMSHOUSE, in College church-yard, Deadman’s place, Southwark,
was founded by Mr. Henry Sprat, in the year 1709, for two poor old men,
who have an allowance of 4_l._ _per annum_, each.


SPREAD EAGLE _alley_, 1. Kingsland road.* 2. Whitechapel.*


SPREAD EAGLE _court_, 1. Bread street, Cheapside.* 2. Church lane,
Rotherhith.* 3. Gray’s Inn lane, Holbourn.* 4. Hand alley, Petticoat
lane.* 5. Kingsland road.* 6. Threadneedle street.*


SPREAD EAGLE _yard_, Kingsland road.*


SPRING GARDEN, Charing cross.


SPRING GARDEN _mews_, Spring Garden.


SPRING _street_, Fox lane, Upper Shadwell: 2. Middle Shadwell.


SPUR _inn yard_, St. Margaret’s Hill.*


SPUR _street_, Leicester Fields.*


SPURSTOWE’S ALMSHOUSE, in Back lane, Hackney, was founded by Mr.
William Spurstowe, in the year 1666; but dying before it was endowed,
his brother Henry, settled lands upon it, for the payment of 4_l._ _per
annum_, to each of the six poor widows therein. _Maitland._


SQUIRREL _alley_, in the Minories.*


SQUIRRIES, a fine seat near Westerham. See the article WESTERHAM.


STABLE _yard_, 1. Jockey Fields, near Grays Inn: 2. St. James’s street
Pallmall: 3. Northumberland alley, Fenchurch street: 4. near Smith’s
street, Marsham street: 5. Warner street, Cold Bath Fields.


STACEY’S _street_, Monmouth street.†


STAFFORD’S ALMSHOUSE, at the lower end of Gray’s Inn lane, was founded
by Alexander Stafford, Esq; in the year 1633, for four poor men and
six women, who have an annual allowance of 6_l._ and half a chaldron of
coals each, besides a coat and gown every other year.


STAFFORD _street_, Bond street.


STAG’S _alley_, Bedfordbury.*


STAINING _lane_, 1. Maiden lane: 2. near Wood street, Cheapside.


STAINS, or STANES, a populous town in Middlesex, situated on the
Thames, nineteen miles from London, it obtained its name from the Saxon
word _Stana_ or stone, because there anciently stood a boundary stone
in this place to denote the extent of the city of London’s jurisdiction
upon the river. It has a bridge over the Thames, and is governed by two
constables, and four headboroughs appointed by his Majesty’s steward,
on account of its being a lordship belonging to the crown. The church
stands alone, at almost half a mile distance from the town.


STAMFORD HILL, a hill with a small village on its side between
Newington, and Tottenham Highcross.


STAMFORD’S _buildings_, Old street.†


STAMP _corner_, Old street.


STAMP OFFICE, on the west side of Lincoln’s Inn Square, extends from
the passage leading to Lincoln’s Inn Fields to near the south-west
corner.

This office is under the government of five commissioners who have 400
_l._ a year each. There are besides a receiver general who has 500_l._
_per annum_, under whom are four clerks, one who has 100_l._ a year, and
three who have 60_l._ A secretary, who has 300_l._ a year, who has four
clerks, one of whom has 130_l._ _per annum_, another 70_l._ another 60_l._
and another 50_l._ a year. A comptroller, who has 400_l._ _per annum_,
and has three clerks, one who has 100_l._ and two others who have 60_l._
a year each.

The other officers are an accomptant clerk, a sollicitor, a teller of
stamps, three inspectors of courts and corporations in the country, and
one inspector of courts in town, and also a supervisor of the stamps,
each of whom has a salary of 100_l._ a year. There are likewise a
register and comptroller of the apprentice duty, who has 150_l._ a year;
a register of warrants, who has 140_l._ and a warehouse keeper of stampt
goods who has 160_l._ a year: and besides these there are many inferior
officers, who have smaller sallaries.


STANBURY’S _court_, Picadilly.


STANES, a town in Middlesex. See STAINS.


STANGATE _stairs_, Lambeth.


STANGATE _street_, Lambeth.


STANHOPE’S _court_, Charing Cross.†


STANHOPE’S _street_, Clare Market.†


STANLEY’S _yard_, Stony lane.†


STANBURY’S _court_, Picadilly.†


STANTON’S _rents_, Rotherhith Wall.†


STANTON’S _Wharf_, near Stony lane, Southwark.†


STAPLES _court_, Beck street.†


STAPLES INN, one of the inns of chancery, is seated on the south side
of Holbourn, near the bars, and consists of two large courts surrounded
with good buildings.


STAPLES _rents_, Love lane.†


STAR _alley_, 1. Barnaby street, Southwark.* 2. East Smithfield,
Tower Hill.* 3. Fenchurch street.* 4. in the Minories.*


STAR _court_, 1. Bread street, Cheapside.* 2. Bread street hill, Thames
street.* 3. Butcher Row, Temple Bar.* 4. Castle street.* 5. Chancery
lane.* 6. Cheapside.* 7. Compton street.* 8. Cross lane, Parker’s
lane.* 9. Great Eastcheap.* 10. Grub street, Fore street.* 11. Little
Britain.* 12. London Wall.* 13. in the Minories.* 14. Old Fish street.*


STAR _street_, Wapping Wall.*


STAR _yard_, 1. Barnaby street.* 2. Huggen lane, Thames street.* 3.
Kingsland road.* 4. Moor lane.*


STARCH _alley_, 1. Greenback, Southwark: 2. Rotten Row, Goswell street.


STARCH _yard_, 1. Back lane, Lambeth: 2. Old Gravel lane.


STARCHMAKERS, a company incorporated by letters patent granted by King
James I. in the year 1622. They are governed by a master, two wardens,
and twenty-four assistants, but have neither livery nor hall.


STARLING SCHOOL, on Little Tower Hill, was founded in the year 1673,
by Sir Samuel Starling, knt. and alderman, for forty boys, and thirty
girls, of the parish of St. Botolph without Aldgate, who are taught
reading, writing and arithmetic, and also instructed in the principles
of the Christian religion. _Maitland._


STATIONERS, a company incorporated by letters patent granted in the
third and fourth of Philip and Mary, in the year 1557. They are
governed by a master, two wardens, and thirty-six assistants, with a
livery of 280 members, who upon their admission, pay a fine of 20_l._

This company has stock of about 15000_l._ denominated the English stock,
which is employed in printing almanacks, hornbooks, primmers, psaltars,
and some school books, the sole printing whereof is confirmed to them
by letters patent granted by several kings.

This stock consists of twenty whole shares of 320_l._ each, which are
generally possessed by those who are of the court of assistants: the
second are forty half shares, of 160_l._ each, the third are eighty
quarter shares, of 80_l._ each, and the fourth are one hundred and sixty
half quarter shares, of 40_l._ each; all which are divided among those
who have fined for or served the office of renter-warden.

Upon the death of any of the married possessors of this stock, the
profits arising from his share devolve to his widow, which she enjoys
during her widowhood or life: but at the expiration of either, another
person is chosen to enjoy the profits of her share; and he is no sooner
elected, than he pays the deposit-money to the late widow, her husband,
or executors.

The dividends upon the stock are made at Christmas, and increased or
decreased according to the expence of the preceding year; however, it
is seldom less than 40_l._ upon a whole share, or 320_l._

The master and wardens of the company are always in the direction of
the stock, to whom are joined six other members annually elected; who
adjust all accounts relating to it, and at Christmas report the state
thereof to the board, who regulate the dividends accordingly.

The stationers company have also a share in the Irish estate, and other
considerable estates, out of which they pay about 300_l._ _per annum_ in
pensions, and other charities. _Maitland._


STATIONERS HALL, a spacious brick building near Amen Corner. There is
an ascent to it by a flight of steps, and the light is thrown in by two
series of windows, the lower large and upright, and the upper of an
elliptical form. Underneath it, and at the north end are the warehouses
for the company’s stock. This hall has but few ornaments; but it is
however extremely convenient.


STATIONERS _court_, in which stationers hall is placed, has three
passages into it one from Ludgate street; one from Ave Mary lane,
and one from Amen Corner. This court, and the passages into it, are
inhabited by eminent booksellers.


STAYMAKERS _alley_, Booth street, Spitalfields.


STEBBING’S _rents_, Portpool lane, Leather lane, Holbourn.†


STEEDWELL _street_, Hog lane, St. Giles’s.†


STEEL’S _court_, Bread street, Cheapside.†


STEEL _yard_, in Thames street above the Bridge. Here was originally
the hall of the Anseatic merchants, and the warehouses where they used
to stow their steel, flax, hemp, pitch, tar, masts, cables, linen
cloth, wheat, rye and other grain. And in this place are still large
warehouses for iron, in bars, &c.


STEEL _yard stairs_, by the Steel yard.


STEEL _yard wharf_, at the end of the Steel yard.


STEEP’S _garden_, Kent street, near St. George’s church, Southwark.


_St._ STEPHEN’S _chapel_, at the south-east corner of Westminster hall,
was founded by King Stephen, who dedicated it to St. Stephen the Proto
martyr. See _House of_ COMMONS.


_St._ STEPHEN’S _Coleman street_, is situated on the west side of that
street, and in the ward of the same name. It is of great antiquity,
and was originally a chapel belonging to the dean and chapter of St.
Paul’s, who between the years 1171, and 1181, granted the church of St.
Olave Jewry, together with this chapel, as an appendage to it, to the
prior and abbot of Butley in Suffolk.

This chapel was made parochial in the year 1456, but continued under
the patronage of the prior and canons of Butley, till the suppression
of that convent, when it came to the crown. However in the year 1577,
Queen Elizabeth granted the patronage, together with the church and
rectory to Thomas Paskins and others, and in 1590 to William Daniel,
serjeant at law, and other parishioners; which rectory impropriate,
and right of advowson, have been held by the parish in fee farm of the
crown ever since. _Newc. Repert. Eccless._

This church sharing the common fate in the dreadful fire of London, the
present structure was erected in its stead about four years after. It
is a plain and solid building strengthened with rustic at the corners,
and enlightened by one series of large windows. The steeple is a square
tower crowned with a lanthorn which has four faces.

The rector, besides several annual donations, and other advantages,
receives 110_l._ _per annum_.

Mr. Munday, in his edition of Stow’s Survey, mentions several
monumental inscriptions in this church, among which are the following.

  1. Our life is all but death; time that ensueth,
       Is but the death of time that went before:
     Youth is the death of childhood; age of youth.
       Die once to God, and then thou diest no more.

  2. Agnes, the wife of Leonard Darr, whose sight,
     By sickness much impair’d, in heav’nly light,
     Look’d, liv’d and died, as dimness her were giv’n,
     That her soul’s eyes might better look to heav’n.

In this church Munday himself lies, and on his monument is the
following inscription.

3. To the Memory of that ancient servant to the city with his pen in
divers employments, especially the _Survey of London_, master _Anthony
Munday_, citizen and draper of London.

     He that hath many an antient Tombstone read,
     (I’th’ labour seeming more among the dead
     To live, than with the living) that survey’d
     Obstruse antiquities, and o’er them laid
     Such vive and beauteous colours with his pen,
     That (spite of time) those old are new again,
     Under this marble lies interr’d; his tomb
     Claiming (as worthily it may) this room,
     Among those many monuments his quill
     Has so reviv’d, helping now to fill
     A place (with those) in his Survey; in which
     He has a monument, more fair, more rich
     Than polish’d stones could make him, where he lies,
     Though dead, still living, and in that ne’er dies.


_St._ STEPHEN’S HOSPITAL, situated in the Woolstaple at Westminster,
was founded by Henry VIII. in the year 1544, for eight maimed soldiers,
who have each a convenient room, and an allowance of 5_l._ _per annum_
out of the Exchequer.


_St._ STEPHEN’S _Walbrook_, behind the Mansion-house of the Lord Mayor,
in Walbrook ward. We read of a church near the same spot dedicated to
the same patron so early as the year 1135; but it then stood on the
other side of the street. However about the year 1428, Robert Chichely,
Mayor of London, purchased the ground of the present church and cemetry
of the Grocers company, and the first stone of the new structure
was laid in 1429; but the work advanced so slowly, that it was not
finished, till the year 1439.

The old structure was destroyed by the fire of London in the year
1666, and the present noble edifice was erected in its place by the
great Sir Christopher Wren. The steeple rises square to a considerable
height, and is then surrounded with a balustrade, within which rises
a very light and elegant tower in two stages, the first adorned with
Corinthian, and the second with Composite columns, and covered with a
dome, whence rises the vane.

The outside of the church is plain and void of ornament, but in the
center of the roof is a large dome; which cannot be seen to advantage,
on account of its being in a manner hid by the Mansion-house. The
principal beauties of this justly admired edifice are on the inside;
where this dome, which is spacious and noble, is finely proportioned
to the church, and divided into small compartments decorated with
great elegance, and crowned with a lanthorn, while the roof, which is
also divided into compartments, is supported by very noble Corinthian
columns, raised on their pedestals. It has three isles and a cross
isle; is seventy-five feet in length, and thirty-six in breadth, the
height of the middle roof is thirty-four feet, and of the cupola and
lanthorn fifty-eight feet. On the sides under the lower roofs are only
circular windows, but those which enlighten the upper roof are small
arched ones; and at the east end are three very noble arched windows.

In the opinion of some persons this is Sir Christopher Wren’s
masterpiece. It is even thought that Italy itself can produce no modern
structure equal to this in taste, proportion, elegance and beauty. It
is certain that foreigners, to whom it is well known, might very justly
call our judgments in question, were we not to allow it as high a
degree both of merit and fame as they have bestowed upon it. It is one
of the happy productions of Sir Christopher Wren’s great genius without
a strict observance of the rules of art. It has a very striking effect
at entering, every part coming at once to your eye, except the bases of
the columns, which are injudiciously eclipsed by the carving on the top
of the pews (these are not represented in the print) and was not the
design of the architect. The outside is now in part hid by the Mansion
house. The plate also represents a plan and section.

To this church that of St. Bennet Sherehog is annexed, whereby the
profits of the rector are much increased: besides other advantages, he
receives 100_l._ a year in lieu of tithes.

[Illustration:
    _S. Wale delin._      _E. Rooker sculp._
           _S^t Stephen’s Walbrook_]

STEPNEY, a very ancient village near London; but as it not joined to it
by contiguous buildings, we shall not, after the example of some of our
late compilers, represent it as a part of this metropolis.

This parish was of such a vast extent, and so amazingly increased in
buildings, as to produce the parishes of St. Mary Stratford at Bow,
St. Mary Whitechapel, St. Ann’s Limehouse, St. John’s at Wapping,
St. Paul’s Shadwell, St. George’s Ratcliff Highway, Christ Church
Spitalfields, and St. Matthew’s Bethnal Green; all which have been
separated from it, and yet it still remains one of the largest parishes
within the bills of mortality, and contains the hamlets of Mile-end,
Old and New Towns, Ratcliff and Poplar.

The village of Stepney, is remarkable for its church, and the great
number of tombstones, both in that edifice and its spacious cemetry. It
has also an independant meeting-house, and an almshouse. The village,
however, is but small, and consists of few houses besides those of
public entertainment; vast crowds of people of both sexes resorting
thither on Sundays, and at Easter and Whitsun holidays, to eat Stepney
buns, and to regale themselves with ale, cyder, _&c._

There was a church here so long ago as the time of the Saxons, when
it was called the church of all Saints, _Ecclesia omnium Sanctorum_,
and we read of the manor of Stepney under the reign of William the
Conqueror, by the name of _Stibenhede_, or Stiben’s-heath; but it
does not appear when the church changed its name by being dedicated
to St. Dunstan, the name it at present bears. To this church belong
both a rectory and vicarage; the former, which was a sinecure, was in
the gift of the bishop of London, and the latter, in the gift of the
rector, till Ridley, bishop of London, gave the manor of Stepney, and
the advowson of the church to Edward VI. who, in his turn, granted
them to Sir Thomas Wentworth, Lord Chamberlain of his houshold. But
the advowson being afterwards purchased by the principal and scholars
of King’s Hall and Brazen-Nose college in Oxford, they presented two
persons to the rectory and vicarage by the name of the Portionists
of Ratcliff and Spitalfields, till the year 1744, when the hamlet of
Bethnal Green being separated from it, and made a new parish by act of
parliament, Stepney became possessed by only one rector.

As this is at present a rectory impropriate, the above principal
and scholars receive the great tithes, and the incumbent the small,
together with Easter offerings, garden pennies, and surplice fees,
which are very considerable. _Newc. Repert. Eccles._

When the present church was erected is not recorded; the wall and
battlements are built of brick and wrought stone, plastered over; and
the roof is covered with lead. It is of a very considerable extent,
for it is an hundred and four feet long, though it is no more than
fifty-four broad; the height of the roof is thirty-five feet, and that
of the tower, with its turret, ninety-two feet. The pillars, arches
and windows, are of the modern Gothic, and the west porch, built in
1610, has no resemblance to the rest of the building, it being of the
Tuscan order. The tower, which is plain and heavy, is supported at the
corners by a kind of double buttresses; it is crowned with square plain
battlements, without pinnacles, and with a small mean turret; and the
same kind of battlements are carried round the body of the church.

On the inside are three galleries and an organ, and the altar-piece is
adorned with four Corinthian pilasters, with their entablature and a
pediment; these have gilt capitals; with the arms of Queen Anne carved:
but what is most singular is a stone on the east side of the portico,
leading up to the gallery, on which is the following inscription.

  Of Carthage great I was a stone,
    O mortals read with pity!
  Time consumes all, it spareth none,
    Men, mountains, towns, nor city:
  Therefore O mortals! all bethink
    You where unto you must,
  Since now such stately buildings
    Lie buried in the dust.

It is probable this stone was really brought from Carthage, otherwise
this inscription would scarcely be permitted to be there; but as a
modern author observes, it is to be hoped, that he who ordered it to be
fixed there, did not go to Carthage on purpose to fetch it.

At the east end of the church-yard near the church is a monument of
white marble, adorned with a cherub, urn, palm-branches and a coat of
arms, under which is the following inscription:

  Here lieth interred the body of Dame Rebecca Berry, the wife of Thomas

  Elton of Stratford Bow, gent. who departed this life April 16, 1696,
  aged 52.

  Come ladies, you that would appear
  Like angels fair, come dress you here;
  Come dress you at this marble stone
  And make that humble Grace your own,
  Which once adorn’d as fair a mind,
  As e’er yet lodg’d in womankind.
  So she was dress’d, whose humble life
  Was free from pride, was free from strife:
  Free from all envious brawls and jars
  (Of human life the civil wars)
  These ne’er disturb’d her peaceful mind,
  Which still was gentle, still was kind.
  Her very looks, her garb, her mien,
  Disclos’d the humble soul within.
  Trace her through ev’ry scene of life,
  View her as widow, virgin, wife,
  Still the same humble she appears,
  The same in youth, the same in years;
  The same in low and high estate,
  Ne’er vex’d with this, ne’er mov’d with that.
  Go, Ladies, now, and if you’d be  }
  As fair, as great, as good as she,}
  Go learn of her humility.         }

On another grave-stone near the south-east corner of the church-yard,
is the following inscription on Mary Angel:

  To say an angel here interr’d doth lie,
  May be thought strange, for angels never die.
    Indeed some fell from heav’n to hell.
      Are lost, and rise no more:
    This only fell by death to earth,
      Not lost but gone before.
  Her dust lodg’d here, her soul perfect in grace,
  ’Mongst saints and angels now hath took its place.

Near the south side of the church on a marble tomb-stone, adorned with
a coat of arms, are the following lines on capt. Thomas Chevers, his
wife, and a son who died at five days old.

  Reader, consider well how poor a span,
  And how uncertain is the life of man:
  Here lie the husband, wife, and child, by death
  All three in five days time deprived of breath.
  The child dies first, the mother on the morrow
  Follows, and then the father dies with sorrow.
  A Cæsar falls by many wounds, well may
  Two stabs at heart the stoutest captain slay.

On a stone near the foot path on the north-west side, is the following
inscription:

  Whoever treadeth on this stone,
    I pray you tread most neatly,
  For underneath the same doth lye
    Your honest friend Will. Wheatly.

The last inscription we shall mention is the following short one on the
south-west side of the church.

  Here lies the body of Daniel Saul,
  Spittlefields weaver, and that is all.


STEPNEY _causeway_, Whitehorse lane.☐


STEPNEY _green_, Stepney.☐


STEPNEY _rents_, Shoreditch.☐


STERN’S _yard_, Kent street, Southwark.†


STERRY’S _rents_, in the Minories.†


STEVENS’S _alley_, Chanel row, New Palace yard.† 2. King’s street,
Westminster.†


STEVENS’S _court_, New Palace yard, Westminster.†


STEVENS’S _yard_, Poplar.†


STEWARD’S _court_, Clerkenwell green.†


STEWARD’S _rents_, Great Wild street.†


STEWARD’S _street_, Artillery lane, Spitalfields.†


STEWART’S SCHOOL, for the benefit of twenty poor boys of the parish of
St. George Hanover square, was founded and endowed by lieut. general
Stewart, who about the year 1728, bequeathed the sum of 500_l._ for that
purpose. _Maitland._


STEW _lane_, High Timber street.


STEWS, a number of brothels anciently situated on the Bank-side,
Southwark, and licensed by the bishop of Winchester. There were at
first eighteen of these houses, but afterwards only twelve were
allowed: they stood in a row, and had signs on their fronts towards the
Thames, not hung out, but painted on the walls, as the Boar’s Head, the
Cross Keys, the Castle, the Cardinal’s Hat, the Bell, the Swan, _&c._
These houses which were frequently kept by Flemish bawds, were under
very strict regulations, among which were the following, confirmed by
act of parliament, in the reign of Henry II.

That no stewholder or his wife should hinder any single woman from
going and coming as often as she pleased.

That no stewholder should board any single woman; but she should board
abroad at her pleasure, and that no more should be taken for the
woman’s chamber than 14_d._ a week.

That the doors should be shut up on all holidays, and no single woman
suffered in the house.

That no single woman desirous of forsaking her sins, should be kept
against her will.

That no stewholder should receive a nun, or any man’s wife.

That no man should be drawn or inticed into any of these houses, nor
any single woman take money for lying with a man, unless he lay all
night.

That no stewholder should keep any woman that had the perilous
infirmity of burning; [the venereal disease;] nor sell bread, flesh,
fish, ale, wood, coals, or any kind of food; and that the constables,
bailiffs and others should search every stewhouse weekly.

These and many other orders were to be observed, under the penalty of
suffering great pains and punishments; and any woman leading a life of
lewdness was forbidden the rights of the church, and denied Christian
burial, if she was not reconciled before her death. And therefore there
was a plot of ground called the single woman’s church-yard, appointed
for these women at a distance from the parish church.

These stews were put down by order of Henry VIII. in the year 1546,
when it was proclaimed by sound of trumpet, that this row of stews
was no longer to be privileged, and used as a common brothel. _Stow’s
Survey._


STICHBONE’S _court_, High Holbourn.†


STILL _alley_, Bishopsgate street without.* 2. Bluegate field,
Upper Shadwell.† 3. George street.* 4. Houndsditch.† 5. Long
alley, Moorfields.* 6. New street, St. Thomas’s.* 7. Petticoat lane,
Whitechapel.*


STILL _stairs_, Pickleherring street.*


STILL _yard_, 1. Liquorpond street, Leather lane.* 2. Maze Pond street,
Southwark.* See STEEL _yard_.


STOCKDON’S _yard_, Vine yard, Horselydown lane.†


STOCKING FRAME _alley_, Shoreditch.*


STOCKS MARKET, stood at the north-east corner of Walbrook, where the
Mansion House of the Lord Mayor is now erected. This was made a market
about the year 1282, at which time was a pair of stocks there, for the
punishment of offenders, the first set up in the city of London.

This market was about 230 feet long from north to south, and about 180
feet broad, besides the room left for passengers on each side. On the
east side were planted rows of trees, and on the north were twenty-two
stalls covered over for fruit, as well on market days, as at other
times. The rest of the market was taken up by gardeners, only at the
south-west corner were two ranges of stalls for butchers.

But what was most singular in this market, was, there being placed at
the north end, a pretended Equestrian statue of King Charles II. set
up at the expence of Sir Robert Viner, alderman, knt. and baronet.
This statue was originally made for John Sobieski King of Poland, but,
by some accident, was left upon the workman’s hands: about the same
time the city was loyal enough to pay their devoirs to King Charles,
immediately upon his restoration; and, finding this statue ready
made to their hands, resolved to do it the cheapest way, and convert
the Polander into a Briton, and the Turk, underneath his horse, into
Oliver Cromwell, to make their compliment compleat. In this very manner
it appeared, and the turbant upon the last mentioned figure was an
undeniable proof of the truth of the story.

The above statue and all the stalls were removed in the year 1738, in
order to lay the foundation of the present Mansion-house.


STOKE GREEN, a village in Buckinghamshire, a little to the north of
Windsor. Sir Thomas Stapleton has here a very handsome house, and large
and most beautiful gardens.

In the neighbourhood of this village is Stoke House, which belongs to
the Lady Cobham, and is a noble and large edifice, with a pleasant
park. Adjoining to the house is the parish church of Stoke, and a neat
hospital, built and endowed by —— Countess of Huntingdon, for the
support and maintenance of 12 ancient poor people of both sexes.


STOKE POGES, a village so called from the Poges, its ancient Lords,
is situated a little to the north of Stoke Green. Here Edward Lord
Hastings, in the reign of Queen Mary, erected a chapel and hospital,
adorned with a portico supported by pillars, that still remain on the
east end of this ancient seat. The entrance to the house, is like that
of the Villa Borghese at Rome, by a great hall paved with marble, and
adorned with many fine ancient busts of the Roman Emperors, some of
marble, some of granate, and others of porphyry, brought from Rome
by the late Sir Robert Gayer. At the bottom of this hall is a pretty
little chapel paved with marble, seeming to rise like steps. From this
hall there is an entrance into a fine park, with seven avenues in the
form of a star; from each of which there is a delightful prospect, and
from one of them a good view of Windsor Castle.


STONE _alley_, Broad street, Ratcliff.


STONE _court_, 1. Aldersgate street: 2. St. Catharine’s by the Tower:
3. Lower East Smithfield: 4. New street, Fetter lane.


STONE CUTTERS _alley_, 1. Black Friars: 2. Fleet ditch: 3. Little Queen
street: 4. Pallmall.


STONE CUTTERS _court_, 1. Gutter lane, Cheapside: 2. Old street. 3.
Pallmall.


STONE CUTTER _street_, next to Harp ally, in the Fleet market.


STONE CUTTER _yard_, 1. Blackman street: 2. Butcher row, Ratcliff: 3.
near Castle street: 4. Great stone stairs, Ratcliff: 5. St. Martin’s
lane, Charing Cross: 6. Kent street, by St. George’s church, Southwark:
7. Millbank, Westminster horse-ferry: 8. Peter’s street: 9. Poor Jewry
lane, Aldgate.


STONE’S _rents_, Limehouse.†


STONE _stairs_, near Ratcliff cross.


STONE _yard_, 1. Lower East Smithfield: 2. Tooley street, Southwark.


STONY _lane_, St. Olave street, Southwark: 2. Old horselydown,
Southwark: 3. Petticoat lane.


STONY _street_, near Deadman’s Place, Southwark: 2. Cock lane,
Shoreditch.


STOREHOUSE _yard_, New Rag Fair, East Smithfield.


STOREY’S _passage_, and STOREY’S _gate_, by Storey’s coffee-house; both
removed in order to extend the view through Great George street into
St. James’s Park.†


STRAFFORD _street_, Albemarle street.


STRAND, a street which extends from Temple bar to the corner of St.
Martin’s lane, Charing cross. Maitland observes that the Strand was
anciently a village, which took its name from its being placed on the
bank of the Thames, and that its ancient situation was not much higher
than that river; as upon digging the foundation of the New church
called St. Mary le Strand, the virgin earth was discovered at the depth
of nineteen feet.

In this street formerly resided many of the Nobility, whose gardens
extended to the Thames, among which there are still remaining
Northumberland house, Somerset house, and the ruins of the Savoy.

As this is the grand channel of communication between the city of
London and Westminster it would have been a great ornament to both,
had it been a spacious, straight and uniform street, without that
incumberance which begins at Butcher Row, and ends at the New Church.
In this case, the prospect from Temple Bar would have afforded a noble
vista, terminated by Charing Cross, and this might have been still
enlarged, by letting in the more distant view of the park, through a
street of the same breadth with itself.


STRAND BRIDGE, a handsome structure formerly erected a little to the
east of Catharine street. It was raised over a brook which ran from the
fields, and crossing the Strand fell into the Thames, near Somerset
stairs.


STRAND _bridge_, Strand lane.


STRAND BRIDGE _stairs_, near Strand lane.


STRAND _lane_, a narrow passage leading from the Strand towards the
Thames.


STRANGEWAY’S _street_, Saffron hill.†


STRATFORD LE BOW, a village to the east of Mile-end. See the article
BOW.


STRATFORD or STRATFORD LONG-THORN, the first village in Essex, next
to London, in the parish of Westham. It had an abbey which together
with the church was given by King Henry VIII. to Sir Peter Meautys of
Westham. This parish has greatly increased of late years in buildings
and inhabitants, every vacancy being in a manner filled up, by the
addition of two little new built hamlets, if they may be thus called,
on the forest side of the town; these are Maryland Point, and the
Gravel Pits, one facing the road to Woodford and Epping, and the other
that to Ilford: while the hither part, in spite of rivers, canals, and
marshy grounds, is almost joined to Bow.


STRATTON’S _ground_, near Tothil Fields, Westminster.†


STRETHAM, a village in Surry, six miles south-west of London, and three
miles to the north of Croydon, used to be much frequented for its
medicinal waters. It has a charity school, and a seat belonging to the
Duke of Bedford, Lord of the manor.


STRETTON’S _grounds_, Westminster.†


STRETTON’S _street_, 1. Hyde Park Road, from the Lord Berkley of
Stretton’s mansion-house. 2. Berkley street, Westminster.†


STRAWBERRY _court_, Tower Royal, near St. Thomas Apostles.


STREUD’S _court_, St. James’s.†


STROUD’S _court_, Leather lane, Holbourn.†


STRUMBELS, Chelsea.


STRYPE’S _yard_, Petticoat lane.†


STUBB’S _rents_, 1. Charter house lane.† 2. Saffron hill, near Snow
hill.†


STUT’S _alley_, Kent street, near St. George’s church, Southwark.†


SUBPÆNA OFFICE, in Symmond’s Inn Chancery lane. In this office writs
are issued to summon persons to appear in Chancery.


SUFFOLK _lane_, by Little Bush lane, Thames street.


SUFFOLK _street_, Pallmall: 2. in the Mint Southwark.


SUGARBAKER’S _lane_, Duke’s Place, near Aldgate.


SUGARBAKER’S _yard_, Duke’s Place.


SUGARHOUSE _yard_, Butcher Row.


SUGARLOAF _alley_, 1. Barnaby street, Southwark.* 2. Garlick hill,
Thames street.* 3. Mark lane, Fenchurch street.* 4. Moses and Aaron
alley, Whitechapel.* 5. Portpool lane, Leather lane.* 6. Wentworth
street, Petticoat lane, Spitalfields.*


SUGARLOAF _court_, 1. Angel alley, Bishopsgate street.* 2. Catharine
Wheel alley.* 3. Dorset street.* 4. Garlick hill, Thames street.* 5.
Goodman’s yard, Whitechapel.* 6. Halfmoon alley, Bishopsgate street
without.* 7. Holiwell street.* 8. Lamb alley, Bishopsgate street.* 9.
Leadenhall street.* 10. Little Distaff lane, Old Change.* 11. Little
Elbow lane, Thames street.* 12. Moor lane, Cripplegate.* 13. Peter’s
street, Hicks’s hall.* 14. Spitalfields.* 15. Wentworth street,
Petticoat lane.* 16. Whitecross street, Cripplegate.*


SUGARLOAF _yard_, Holiwell lane, Shoreditch.*


SUN _alley_, 1. Barnaby street, Southwark.* 2. Chick lane, Smithfield.*
3. Cowcross, near Smithfield.* 4. East Smithfield.* 5. Golden lane,
Redcross street.* 6. Grub street, Fore street.* 7. St. John’s street,
Westminster.* 8. Kent street, Southwark.* 9. King street, Cheapside.*
10. Old Gravel lane, Ratcliff Highway.*


SUN AND GUN _yard_, Narrow street, Limehouse.*


SUN AND RAVEN _yard_, Five Feet lane.*


SUN AND TRUMPET _alley_, Whitechapel.*


SUN _court_, 1. Bow lane, Cheapside.* 2. Cock lane, Shoreditch.* 3.
Cornhill.* 4. Deadman’s Place, Southwark.* 5. East Smithfield.* 6. Ivy
lane, Newgate street.* 7. King street, Covent garden.* 8. Petticoat
lane.* 9. Saffron hill.* 10. Sutton’s street, St. John’s street,
Smithfield.* 11. Threadneedle street.* 12. Whitechapel.* 13. Wood
street, Cheapside.* 14. Sun Dial alley, Moorfields.*


SUN FIRE OFFICE, in Threadneedle street, near the Royal Exchange,
and in Craig’s court, Charing Cross, for insuring houses and other
buildings, goods, wares, and merchandize from loss and damage by fire.

This office, which was the first that attempted the insurance of goods
and that of houses beyond the bills of mortality, was according to
Maitland projected by Mr. John Povey about the year 1706, who having
carried it on for sometime with success, conveyed his right to certain
purchasers; who by a deed of settlement of the 7th of April 1710,
erected themselves into a society; and that all persons may, with the
greater security insure in this office, the proprietors have raised an
hundred thousand pounds, as a fund for that purpose.

_Insurances may be made in this office on the following terms._

I. All policies shall be signed and sealed by three or more trustees,
or acting members: by which policies may be insured houses, and other
buildings, houshold furniture, goods, wares, merchandize, and utensils
and implements in trade, being the property of the persons insuring;
except all manner of writings, books of accompts, bills, bonds,
tallies, ready money, jewels, pictures, and gunpowder.

II. Houses, buildings, and goods in trust, and merchandize on
commission, (except as aforesaid) may be insured, provided the same
are declared in the policy to be in trust or on commission, but not
otherwise.

III. On bespeaking policies, all persons are to deposite 7_s._ 6_d._ for
the policy, stamp-duty and mark; and shall pay the premium to the next
quarter-day, and from thence for one year more at least, and shall, as
long as the managers agree to accept the same, make all future payments
annually at the said office, within fifteen days after the day limited
by their respective policies, upon forfeiture of the benefit thereof;
and no insurance is to take place till the premium be actually paid by
the insured, his, her or their agent or agents.

IV. The several heads of insurance are, 1. Common insurances, which are
buildings covered with slate, tile, or lead, and built on all sides
with brick, or stone; where no hazardous trades are carried on, or
hazardous goods and merchandize deposited. On such houses and goods,
any sum not exceeding 200_l._ is insured for 4_s._ _per annum_; any sum
from 200_l._ to 1000_l._ for 2_s._ _per cent. per annum_; and any sum
from 1000_l._ to 3000_l._ at 2_s._ 6_d._ _per cent. per annum_.

2. Hazardous insurances are either timber or plaster buildings,
containing goods and merchandize not hazardous; and in which no
hazardous trades are carried on: or brick or stone buildings wherein
hazardous goods are deposited or hazardous trades carried on. These
hazardous trades and goods are apothecaries, chemists, bread and
biscuit bakers, colourmen, ship and tallow chandlers, stable-keepers,
innholders, malthouses, hemp, flax, tallow, pitch, tar, and turpentine.
On such houses and goods this office insures any sum not exceeding
200_l._ at 6_s._ _per annum_: any sum from 200_l._ to 1000_l._ at 3_s._
_per cent. per annum_; any sum from 1000_l._ to 2000_l._ at 4_s._ _per
cent. per annum_; and any sum from 2000_l._ to 3000_l._ at 5_s._ _per
cent. per annum_.

3. Double hazardous insurances are thatch’d buildings, and goods and
merchandize therein; timber or plaster buildings, wherein hazardous
goods are deposited, or hazardous trades carried on; and also plate,
china, glass, or earthen wares, hay, straw, all manner of fodder, and
corn unthrash’d. Such houses and goods are insured upon the following
terms, any sum not exceeding 200_l._ at 10_s._ _per annum_; any sum
from 200_l._ to 1000_l._ at 5_s._ _per cent. per annum_; and any sum
from 1000 _l._ to 2000_l._ at 7_s._ 6_d._ _per cent. per annum_.

V. Any number of houses, out-houses, with goods or wearing apparel
therein may be insured in one policy, provided the sum insured on each
is particularly mentioned; but in all insurances the premium is to be
paid for even hundred pounds.

If insurances are desired for mills, or for any larger sums than are
specified in the above articles; or for any other insurances more
hazardous than those already described, as sugarbakers, distillers,
or the like; or by reason of the nature of the trade or goods, the
narrowness of the place, or other dangerous circumstances, it may be
done by special agreement.

VI. To prevent frauds, persons insured by this office shall receive no
benefit from their policies, if the same houses or goods are insured in
any other office, unless such insurance be first specify’d and allow’d
by an indorsement on the back of the policy, in which case this office
will pay their ratable proportion on any loss or damage; and if any
person or persons shall insure his, her, or their houses, goods, wares
or merchandize, and shall cause the same to be described in the policy
otherwise than as they really are, so as the same be insured at a lower
premium than proposed in the table, such insurance shall be of no force
nor the person insuring receive any benefit by such policy, in case of
any loss or damage.

VII. No loss or damage to be paid on fire happening by any invasion,
foreign enemy, civil commotion, or any military or usurped power
whatsoever.

VIII. When any person dies, the policy and interest therein shall
continue to the heir, executor, or administrator respectively, to whom
the right of the premises insured shall belong; provided, before any
new payment made, such heir, executor, or administrator, do procure
his or her right to be indorsed on the policy at the said office,
or the premium be paid in the name of the said heir, executor, or
administrator.

IX. Persons changing the habitations or wherehouses, may preserve the
benefit of their policies, if the nature and circumstance of such
policy is not alter’d; but such insurance will be of no force, till
such removal or alteration is allow’d at the office by indorsement on
the policy. Insurances on buildings and goods are deemed distinct and
separate risks; so that the premium on goods is not advanced by reason
of any insurance on the building wherein the goods are kept, nor the
premium on the buildings by reason of any insurance on the goods.

X. Persons insured, sustaining any loss or damage by fire, are
forthwith to give notice thereof at the office, and as soon as possible
afterwards deliver in as particular an account of their loss and
damage, as the nature of the case will admit of, and make proof of the
same by their oath or affirmation, according to the form practis’d
in the said office, and by their books of accounts, or other proper
vouchers, as shall be reasonably required, and procure a certificate
under the hands of the minister and church wardens, together with
some other reputable inhabitants of the parish, not concern’d in such
loss, importing, that they are well acquainted with the character and
circumstances of the person or persons insured, and do know or verily
believe, that he, she, or they, really and by misfortune, without any
fraud or evil practice, have sustain’d by such fire, the loss and
damage, as his, her, or their loss, to the value therein mention’d;
but till such affidavit and certificate of such the insured’s loss
shall be made and produced, the loss-money shall not be payable. And
if there appear any fraud or false swearing, such sufferers shall be
excluded from all benefit by their policies. And in case any difference
arise between the office and the insured, touching any loss or damage,
such difference shall be submitted to the judgment and determination
of arbitrators indifferently chosen, whole award in writing shall be
conclusive and binding to all parties: And when any loss or damage is
settled and adjusted, the insured are to receive immediate satisfaction
for the same, deducting only the usual allowance of 3_l._ _per cent._

_N. B._ In adjusting losses on houses or goods, no wainscot, or any
sculpture or carving-work, is to be valu’d at more than 3_s._ _per_
yard, or plate at more than 5_s._ 6_d._ _per_ ounce.

XI. No receipts are to be taken for any premiums of insurance, but such
as are printed, and issued from the office, and witnessed by one of the
clerks or agents of the office.

Persons may insure for any number of years more than one; and in such
case, there will be an abatement of 6_d._ in the pound _per annum_
on the premiums agreed for, for every year except the first: As to
instance, in a common insurance of 1000_l._ for seven years, the
premium to be paid by the table will be 7_l._ from which 6_d._ in the
pound _per annum_ is to be deducted for the last six years, that is,
3_s._ and 6_d._ _per annum_, which amounts to 1_l._ 1_s._ and reduces
the sum to be paid to 5_l._ 19_s._ and in the same proportion for
any other sums or number of years; and persons insuring can never be
subject to any calls or contributions to make good losses.

_N. B._ For the farther encouragement of persons insuring, there are
provided several fire engines, and there are also employ’d in the
service of the said office, (within the bills of mortality) thirty
ablebody’d firemen, cloath’d in blue liveries, having silver badges
with the Sun mark upon their arms, and twenty able porters, likewise
wearing silver badges with the Sun mark, who are always ready to assist
in quenching fires and removing goods, having given bonds for their
fidelity: And also, all cities and great towns may receive assistance
and encouragement for purchasing engines and proper machines for
putting out fires, upon application to the said office, agreeable
to the number of insurances made by this office in such respective
cities or great towns. From the _proposal delivered by the office in_
Threadneedle _street_, September 21, 1758.

This office is governed by twenty-four directors, under whom is a
secretary, and several clerks.


SUN _street_, Bishopsgate street without.*


SUN TAVERN _fields_, Shadwell.*


SUN TAVERN _fields lane_, Ratcliff.*


SUN _yard_, 1. Bishopsgate street within.* 2. Blackman street,
Southwark.* 3. Bread street, London wall.* 4. Brown street, Bunhill
fields.* 5. Ivy lane, Newgate street.* 6. Nightingale lane, East
Smithfield.* 7. Stepney rents, Shoreditch.* 8. Swan alley Golden lane.*


SUPERSEDEAS OFFICE, in the Poultry Compter. See the article COMPTER.


SURGEONS, a company incorporated with the barbers by Edward IV. in the
year 1461, by the name of _Barbers_, who were then the only surgeons;
but afterwards others practising surgery, who were not barbers, soon
erected themselves into a separate company commonly called the surgeons
of London; but were not incorporated, which the parliament taking into
consideration, united them, with the barbers in the thirty-second year
of the reign of Henry VIII. exempting those practising surgery from
bearing arms, or serving ward and parish offices: by the same act
those who practised shaving were enjoined not to meddle with the art
of surgery, except drawing of teeth; and those who practised surgery
forbid to shave.

In the fifth year of the reign of King Charles I. the surgeons were by
letters patent authorised to elect ten of the freemen of that society
to be examiners of the surgeons of London during life; and it was
ordered, that no person whether a freeman of London, or a foreigner,
should practise surgery within the cities of London and Westminster,
or within the distance of seven miles of the city of London, without
being first examined by two or more of the above examiners, and having
authority from the company of barber surgeons to practise the art of
surgery: allowing all who were thus approved, to practise surgery in
any part of England. It was likewise ordained that no one whether a
freeman of the barber surgeons company, or a foreigner, a native, or
alien, should undertake the office of surgeon of any ship, whether in
the service of the crown, or of any merchant or others, unless they,
and their medicines, instruments and chests, were first examined,
inspected and allowed by two such masters or governors of this company.

The surgeons continued thus incorporated with the barbers, under the
denomination of barber surgeons, till the year 1745; having the same
hall, a very noble structure erected by Inigo Jones, in which is a
theatre, wherein dissections were performed and lectures read. At that
period the surgeons applying to parliament, observed, that since the
two companies had been united, those who had practised surgery have
from their constant application to the study of that science, rendered
it of great benefit to the nation; while the barbers have been long,
and still are employed in a business foreign to, and independent of the
practice of surgery, and therefore finding their union with the barbers
in many respects inconvenient, and that their separation would greatly
contribute to the improvement of surgery, desired that they might be
made distinct and separate companies; upon which an act was passed
accordingly, and the surgeons incorporated by the name of _the master,
governors and commonalty of the art and science of surgery_ of London.

By the above act they were confirmed in the possession of all their
former privileges, impowered to chuse a principal, master, or governor,
two other governors, or wardens, ten examiners of surgeons, and to have
a court of assistants consisting of twenty-one persons. See the article
BARBERS.

But their fine hall was however by the same act given to the barbers,
on which they erected a theatre in the Old Bailey, which is an elegant,
though not an expensive structure. It has a basement story, with square
windows. The principal floor is however raised considerably above
the level of the street, and there is an ascent to it by a double
flight of steps, under which is a door, level with the ground, for
the convenience of bringing in dead bodies executed at Tyburn, for
dissection. The face of this part is Rustic work. At the height of the
steps is a range of Ionic pilasters, within the height of which there
are two series of windows, a row of large ones, with square ones above.
The entablature of the Ionic pilasters supports a plain Attic course,
crowned with vases.


SURRY _street_, in the strand.


SUTTON’S _court_, 1. Bishopsgate street within.† 2. Bishopsgate
street without.† 3. Holbourn hill.† 4. Lincoln’s Inn Fields.†


SUTTON’S _rents_, Chequer Alley.†


SUTTON’S _street_, Hog lane, Soho.†


SWALE _court_, Play House yard.


SWALLOW _street_, Lower Brook street.


SWALLOW’S _gardens_, Rosemary lane.


SWAN _alley_, 1. Barnaby street.* 2. Birchin lane, Cornhill.* 3.
Brown’s lane, Spitalfields.* 4. near White’s alley, Coleman street.*
5. East Smithfield.* 6. Golden lane, Redcross street.* 7. Golden lane,
Redcross street.* 7. Goswell street, Aldersgate street.* 8. in the
Minories.* 9. Puddle Dock hill.* 10. near Ratcliff Cross.* Rotherhith
Wall.* 12. Wardour street.


SWAN AND TWO NECKS, _stable yard_, Tothill street.*


SWAN _court_, 1. Bartholomew lane, Threadneedle street.* 2. Butcher
Row, Temple Bar.* 3. East Smithfield.* 4. Foster lane, Cheapside.* 5.
Grub street, Fore street.* 6. King street, Oxford street.* 7. Mansel
street, Goodman’s Fields.* 9. Narrow Wall, Lambeth.* 10. Petticoat lane,
Whitechapel.*


SWAN _fields_, Shoreditch.†


SWAN _inn yard_, Holbourn Bridge.*


SWAN _street_, Swan Fields.*


SWAN _yard_, 1. Blackman street, Southwark.* 2. Church street,
Lambeth.* 3. Holiwell street, Shoreditch.* 4. Newgate street.*
Nightingale lane.* 6. Old Soho.* 7. Ratcliff Cross.* 8. in the
Strand.† 9. Townsend lane.*


SWAN’S _rents_, Turnmill street.*


SWEDELAND _court_, 1. Bishopsgate street within: 2. Little Tower Hill.


SWEDE’S _church_, Princes square, Ratcliff Highway.
See PRINCE’S SQUARE.


SWEDE’S _court_, 1. Great Trinity lane, from the Swedish church there.
2. New Bond street.


SWEETAPPLE _court_, Bishopsgate street. So called from Sir John
Sweetapple, the owner.


SWEETING’S _alley_, generally called _Swithin’s alley_, the passage by
the east end of the Royal Exchange, from Cornhill into Threadneedle
street. Before the fire of London this whole alley contained but one
house, a very spacious building which belonged to Mr. Swithin or
Sweeting a merchant.


SWEETING’S _passage_, Moor lane, Cripplegate.†


SWEETING’S _rents_, Threadneedle street.†


SWITCH’S _yard_, Upper Ground, Southwark.


SWITHIN’S _alley_, and Swithin’s rents. See SWEETING’S _alley_, and
SWEETING’S _rents_.


_St._ SWITHIN’S, in Canon street, at the west corner of St. Swithin’s
lane in Walbrook ward, is thus denominated from its dedication to St.
Swithin chancellor to King Egbert and Bishop of Winchester, who died
in 806. We read of a church in the same place dedicated to St. Swithin
before the year 1331, but how long it was standing before that time is
uncertain: however the old church was destroyed by the fire of London,
and the present structure arose in its place.

This edifice is sixty-one feet long, and forty-two broad; the roof
is forty feet, and the steeple an hundred and fifty feet in height.
The body is well enlightened, and the windows are arched and well
proportioned. The tower is plain, solid, and cut off at the top, to
give the easier diminution between that part and the base of the spire,
which is surrounded by a balustrade, and has a good diminution.

This church appears to have been anciently under the patronage of the
prior and convent of Tortington in the diocese of Chester, in whom it
continued till the dissolution of that monastery, when Henry VIII.
granted it to the Earl of Oxford, who soon after disposed of it, and
it was at length purchased by the Salters company, in whom it still
continues. On its being rebuilt the Parish of St. Mary Bothaw was
united to it. The rector, besides his other profits, receives 140_l._ a
year in lieu of tithes. _Newc. Repert. Eccles._


SWITHIN’S _lane_, extends from Lombard street, by St. Swithin’s church
into Cannon street.


SWORD AND BUCKLER _court_, Ludgate hill.*


SYCAMORE _yard_, Kent street.‡


SYMOND’S _inn_, on the east side of Chancery lane, is neither an inn of
court nor chancery: but contains several public offices, among which
is the register office. It has been lately rebuilt, and serves to
accommodate several masters in chancery, sollicitors and attornies.


SYTH _lane_, commonly called _Size lane_, near Queen street, Cheapside.


          T.


TABERNACLE _yard_, 1. Petticoat lane: 2. Wheeler street, Spitalfields.


TACKLE BLOCK _court_, at the Hermitage, Wapping.


TACKLE PORTERS. See the article PORTERS.


TALBOT _court_, 1. Fleet street.* 2. Gracechurch street.* 3. Little
Eastcheap.* 4. Portpool lane, Leather lane.*


TALBOT _inn yard_, St. Margaret’s hill.*


TALLOW CHANDLERS, a company incorporated by letters patent granted by
King Edward IV. in the year 1463.

This society anciently dealt not only in candles; but in oil,
vinegar, butter, hops and sope; when great frauds being committed by
adulterating oil, they were impowered by Act of Parliament to search
for, and destroy, all that should be found bad; but no reward being
allowed to the searchers, it was soon neglected.

This company has a master, four wardens, and thirty-eight assistants;
with a livery of one hundred and seventy members, who when admitted pay
a fine of 15_l._ each.

They have a handsome hall on the west side of Dowgate hill; it is a
large building with piazzas formed by arches and columns of the Tuscan
order.


TALLY COURT in the Exchequer. See the article EXCHEQUER.


TAN _alley_, 1. Godder’s rents, Wheeler street, Spitalfields: 2. Long
lane, Southwark.


TAN _yard_, Whitecross street.


TANFIELD _court_, inner Temple.†


TANNER’S _row_, Montague street.†


TANNER’S _yard_, 1. Five Feet lane, Barnaby street: 2. Marsham street.†


TARPLET’S _yard_, Narrow street, Limehouse.†


TARRE’S _wharf_, Durham yard, in the Strand.†


TART’S _court_, Smithfield.†


TASH _court_, Tash street.†


TASH _street_, Grays Inn lane.†


TATTLE _street_, Little Grays Inn lane.║


TAVISTOCK _court_, near Covent Garden.


TAVISTOCK _street_, Covent Garden. The above court and this street
were built upon the ground where the Dukes of Bedford had their house
and gardens, till the year 1704, and took this name from his title of
Marquis of Tavistock. _Maitland._


TAXTER’S _rents_, Rotherhith Wall.†


TAX OFFICE, in New Palace yard, is under the direction of six
commissioners, each of whom has 500_l._ _per annum_: under whom is
a comptroller of duties on houses who has 200_l._ a year, and his
clerk 50_l._ ten general surveyors who have 100_l._ _per annum_ each;
163 surveyors of counties who have 50_l._ a year in England, and 40
_l._ a year in Wales; a secretary, who has 90_l._ a year; an assistant
secretary, who has 60_l._ a year; a sollicitor, who has 100_l._ a year;
and two clerks, one of 60_l._ _per annum_, and the other of 50_l._


TAYLOR’S _court_, Bow lane, Cheapside.†


TAYLOR’S _yard_, St. Giles’s street.†


TEED’S _yard_, Worcester street.†


TEEM’S _rents_, Cowcross.†


TEMPLE, two of the inns of court, thus denominated from the edifice
being founded by the knights Templars in England, who had first a house
in Holborn, and afterwards settled here in the reign of Henry II. when
it was dedicated to God and the Blessed Virgin in the year 1185, by
Honorius, patriarch of the church of the holy Resurrection in Jerusalem.

These Templars took their rise in the following manner, several of the
crusaders settled at Jerusalem, about the year 1118, formed themselves
into an uniform militia, under the name of Templars, or knights of the
Temple, a name they assumed from their being quartered near a church
built on the spot where Solomon’s temple had stood.

These first guarded the roads, in order to render them safe for the
pilgrims who came to visit the Holy Sepulchre, and sometime after they
had a rule appointed them by Pope Honorius II. who ordered them to wear
a white habit; and soon after they were farther distinguished by having
crosses made of red cloth on their upper garments. In a short time many
noblemen in all parts of Christendom became brethren of this order, and
built themselves temples in many cities and great towns in Europe, and
particularly in England, where this in Fleet street was their chief
house.

In the thirteenth century the Templars in Fleet street, were in so
flourishing a situation that they frequently entertained the nobility,
the Pope’s nuncio, foreign embassadors, and even the King himself; and
many parliaments and great councils have been held there.

However in the year 1308 all the Templars both in England, and the
other parts of Christendom, were apprehended and committed to prison,
and five years after Edward II. gave Aimer de la Valence, Earl of
Pembroke, this house of the Templars, with all their possessions within
the city of London. At his death it reverted to the crown, and in
1324, was given to the knights Hospitallers of the order of St. John
of Jerusalem, who had driven the Turks out of the isle of Rhodes, and
had their chief house where St. John’s square is now situated. These
knights soon after let this edifice to the students of the common law,
in whose possession it has remained ever since.

The Temple which contained all that space of ground from the White
Friars westward to Essex house, is divided into two inns of court, the
Inner Temple, and the Middle Temple. These inns have separate halls,
but both houses resort to the Temple church: And yet the buildings
which have been erected at very different times, with very little
order or regularity are perfectly united, and it is impossible for a
stranger to know where the Inner Temple ends and the Middle Temple
begins, except at the entrances, which are the only visible fronts
to the street. Backwards there are many courts of handsome new built
houses, and behind them, the buildings of the Temple have gardens and
walks fronting the Thames. That side lies open and airy, and enjoys a
delightful prospect into Surry.

The Middle Temple gate, next Fleet street is built in the stile of
Inigo Jones, It was erected in 1684, and there is here a graceful
front; but it is extremely narrow, and cannot be called the front of so
vast a building, or rather number of separate buildings, as the Temple.
It is of brick-work, with four large stone pilasters of the Ionic
order, and a handsome pediment with a round in the middle in which is
inscribed in large capitals SURREXIT IMPENSIS SOCIETAT. MED. TEMPLI,
MDCLXXXIV. and beneath, just over the arch, the figure of a holy lamb.

In the treasury chamber of the Middle Temple is preserved a great
quantity of armour, which belonged to the knights Templars, consisting
of helmets, breast and back pieces, together with several pikes, a
halbard, and two very beautiful shields, with iron spikes in their
centers, of the length of six inches in diameter, and each of about
twenty pounds weight. They are curiously engraved, and one of them
richly inlaid with gold: the insides are lined with leather stuffed,
and the edges adorned with silk fringe; and broad leathern belts are
fixed to them, for the bearers to sling them upon their shoulders.

In garden court in the Middle Temple is a library founded by the will
of Robert Ashley, Esq; in the year 1641, who bequeathed his own library
for that purpose, and 300_l._ to be laid out in a purchase, for the
maintenance of a librarian, who must be a student of the society, and
be elected into that office by the benchers. Mr. Ashley also bequeathed
all his furniture to be disposed of for the benefit of his library.

The number of volumes in the year 1738 amounted to 3982, in most
branches of literature; but more especially in law and parliamentary
affairs; and as it is continually encreasing, by the benefactions
of authors and others, it will probably become a numerous, and very
valuable collection.

This library is duly kept open (except in the dead time of the long
vacation) from ten in the morning till one in the afternoon, and from
two in the afternoon till six in summer, and four in winter.

The Inner Temple is situated to the east of Middle Temple gate, and has
a cloister, a larger garden, and more spacious walks than the other.
This society consists of benchers, barristers and students; the former
of whom, as governors at commons have their table at the upper end of
the hall, and the barristers and students in the middle. Anciently at
these entertainments their bread served instead of plates, and they had
no other drinking vessels than wooden cups; but at present they are
allowed trenchers for their meat, and coarse green earthen pots for
their liquor. However, though the antient custom of using mean vessels
still prevails, yet there are few who fare better.

All the members of the society who have chambers, are obliged to be in
commons a fortnight every term, for which they pay about 10_s._ a week.
Sixteen of these terms, with a regular course of study, qualifies a
student for the bar.

Upon the admission of a member, the fees of the house are 3_l._ 6_s._
8_d._ which, with other disbursements, amount to 4_l._ 2_d._

The parliament, wherein the affairs of the society are treated is
commonly held twice every term.

The officers and servants of the house are, a treasurer, a
sub-treasurer, a steward, a chief and three under butlers, an upper and
under cook, a pannierman, a gardener, two porters, and two wash pots.

The Middle Temple, which joins to the Inner Temple on the west, is
thus denominated from its having been the middle or central part of
the antient Temple or Priory of knights Templars. The chief officer of
this house, like that of its neighbour, is a treasurer, who is annually
elected from among the benchers, and whose office is to admit students;
to assign them their chambers, and to receive and pay all the cash
belonging to the society.

The officers and governors of this inn, are in all respects like that
of the Inner Temple, except the charge of admission, which is 5_l._ and
the time to qualify a student for the bar, instead of sixteen terms in
that, is twenty-eight in this.

The print exhibits the entrance of the Middle Temple, which is elegant,
together with the east side of Temple Bar, as it appears from the end
of Chancery lane in Fleet street, the situation of the Temple along the
side of the river is very fine, yet nothing can be more void of harmony
or decoration than the buildings of which it is composed, owing chiefly
to the division and subdivision of property, which renders regularity
next to impossible. The thing most worthy of notice in the Temple is
the old church which belonged to the knights Templars of Jerusalem. You
enter it through a circular tower of Saxon architecture in which are
buried some Knights Templars, whose figures lying on the ground are
preserved by iron rails. The church is purely Gothic, and it is great
pity that the altar, pulpit, organ, gallery, &c. had not been kept in
the same stile of architecture. This would have made it as regular
though not so rich, as the chapel of Henry the seventh.

But the temple church requires a more particular description. We shall
therefore trace it from its origin, and describe its several parts.

The first church here was founded in the year 1185, by the knights
Templars; it was dedicated to the Virgin Mary, but was more generally
called by the name of the founders, than the protectress. In 1240, the
old structure was taken down, and another erected after the same model.
The present edifice was one of those that escaped the fire of London in
1666; but in 1695 the south-west part was new built, and in 1706 the
whole was thoroughly repaired.

The whole edifice is stone firmly put together and enriched with
ornaments. It consists of a long body with a turret, and a round tower
at the west end, that has much the air of a piece of fortification.
The length of the church from the altar to the screen is eighty-three
feet, its breadth sixty feet; and the height of the roof thirty-four.
The round tower is forty-eight feet high; its diameter at the floor,
fifty-one feet, and its circumference 160 feet.

The windows which enlighten the body of the church are large and well
proportioned. They are composed of three Gothic arches, a principal,
and a lower on either side. These windows stand so close that there are
but very slender piers left between them to support a very heavy roof;
they are therefore strengthened with buttresses; but these buttresses,
as in most other Gothic structures, exclude more light than the piers
would have done, had they been larger, and the windows considerably
smaller.

The tower which is very massy, has few windows, and those small, yet
there are buttresses carried up between them; the top is crowned with
plain square battlements, and from the center rises a fane.

The turret upon the body of the church is small and plain, and serves
to receive a bell. In short, what can be seen of the outside has a
venerable aspect, but nothing either grand or elegant: the principal
beauties are to be seen within.

On entering the round tower, you find it supported with six pillars,
wainscotted with oak six feet high, and adorned all round, except the
east part, which opens into the church, with an upper and lower range
of small arches, and black apertures; but what is most remarkable in
this part, is, that there are here the tombs of eleven of the knights
Templars who lie interred here; eight of which, are covered with the
figures of armed knights; of these five, to shew the veneration they
had for the cross of Christ, lie cross legged; and these had made a
vow, to go to the Holy Land, in order to make war on the infidels.
Three of these are the tombs of the Earls of Pembroke, William Marshal
the elder, who died in 1219; his son, who died in 1231, and Gilbert
Marshal, his brother, who was slain in a tournament at Hertford in
1241, The other effegies lie strait legged; and the rest of the tombs
are only coped stone; but both the effegies and these stones are all
gray marble.

This tower is divided from the body of the church by a very handsome
screen in the modern taste; which will be described hereafter. On
passing this screen we find the church has three roofs supported by
tall and slender pillars of Sussex marble. The windows are also adorned
with small neat pillars of the same stone, and the floor paved with
black and white marble. The isles are five in number; three, as usual,
running east and west, and two cross isles.

The walls are neatly wainscotted with oak above eight feet high, and
the alterpiece, which is of the same wood, is much higher, finely
carved, and adorned with four pilasters and two columns of the
Corinthian order: it is also ornamented with cherubims, a shield,
festoons, fruit and leaves. The pulpit, which is placed near the east
end of the middle isle, is finely carved and veniered; the sounding
board is pendant from the roof, and enriched with several carved
arches, a crown, festoons, cherubims and vases.

The screen at the west end of the isles is like the alterpiece, of
wainscot, and adorned with ten pilasters of the Corinthian order, with
three portals and pediments. The organ gallery, over the middle gallery
is supported by two fluted Corinthian columns, and ornamented with an
entablature and a compass pediment, with the King’s arms well carved.
Near the pediment on the south side is an enrichment of cherubims
and a carved figure of a Pegasus, the badge of the society of the
Inner Temple, and in the pediment on the north side an enrichment of
cherubims, and the figure of a Holy Lamb, the badge of the society of
the Middle Temple: for though these two houses have one church, they
seldom sit promiscuously there; but the gentlemen of the Inner Temple
on the south, and those of the Middle Temple northward from the middle
isle.

In the church are the tombs of many judges, masters in chancery, and
eminent lawyers.

Since the reign of Henry VIII. there has been a divine belonging to
this church named a master, or _custos_, who is constituted by his
Majesty’s letters patent, without institution or induction. Besides the
master, there is a reader, who reads divine service twice a day, at
eight o’clock in the morning, and at four in the afternoon. Formerly
they had a fixed lecturer for Sundays in the afternoon; who had 80_l._ a
year from each house, convenient lodging, and his diet at the benchers
table; but of late the lecture is carried on by various preachers
appointed and paid by the treasurers of the two houses.


TEMPLE BAR, at the end of Fleet street, and at the extremity of the
liberties of the city, is a very handsome gate, where anciently
were only posts, rails, and a chain, such as are now at Holbourn,
Smithfield, and Whitechapel-bars. Afterwards a house of timber was
erected across the street, with a narrow gateway, and an entry through
the south side of it. But since the fire of London, the present
structure was erected, and is the only gate at the extremity of the
city liberties.

This gate is a very noble one, and has two posterns, one on each side,
for the advantage of foot passengers. It is built entirely of Portland
stone, of Rustic work below, and of the Corinthian order. Over the
gateway on the east side, in two niches are stone statues of Queen
Elizabeth and King James I. with the King’s arms over the keystone, and
on the west side, are the statues of King Charles I. and King Charles
II. in Roman habits.

Since the erection of this gate it has been particularly distinguished
by having the heads of such as have been executed for high treason
placed upon it.


TEMPLE _key_, Thames street.☐


TEMPLE _lane_, White Friars.☐


TEMPLE _mews_, Fleet street.☐


TEMPLE _stairs_, Temple lane.☐


TEMPLE _street_, White Friars.☐


TEN BELL _court_, Snow hill.*


TENCH _street_, Bird street, Wapping.†


TENDERDOWN _street_, Hanover square.


TEN FEET _way_, Nightingale lane, East Smithfield.


TENNIS _court_, 1. Church entry, Black Friars: 2. High Holbourn: 3.
Middle row, Holborn.

[Illustration:
    _S. Wale delin._   _E. Rooker sc._
  _Entrance into the Temple & Temple Bar._]

[Illustration:
    _S. Wale delin._   _E. Rooker sc._
              _York Stairs._]

TENTHS OFFICE, in the Temple. In this office is a receiver of the
tenths and his clerk, and a comptroller of the first fruits and tenths.


TENTER _alley_, 1. Little Moorfields.☐ 2. Tooly street, Southwark.☐


TENTER GROUND _alley_, Castle street.☐


TENTER _grounds_, Curtain row, Norton Falgate: 2. Gravel lane: 3. Hog
lane, Shoreditch.


_The_ TENTS, near Maze pond, Snow fields.


TERRAS _walk_, York buildings.


TERRITS _court_, Duck lane, Smithfield.† 2. Islington.†


THACKET’S _court_, Bishopsgate street without.†


THACKHAM’S _court_, Vine street, by Chandois street.†


THAMES. As this river is the principal source of the wealth of this
metropolis, and as the Lord Mayor’s jurisdiction over it is very
extensive, a particular description of it in this place can be neither
improper nor unnecessary.

The Thames if considered with respect to its course and navigation, is
not to be equalled by any other river in the known world. It rises from
a small spring near the village of Hemble, in the parish of Cubberly or
Coberley, a little to the south-west of Cirencester in Gloucestershire;
and taking its course eastward, becomes navigable at Lechlade for
vessels of fifty tons, and there receives the river Colne about 138
miles from London. From Lechlade it continues its course north-east to
Oxford, where it receives the Charwel; after which it runs south-east
to Abingdon, and from thence to Dorchester, where it receives the
Thame, and continues its course south-east by Wallingford to Reading,
flowing through Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Surry, Middlesex, Essex
and Kent, and washing the towns of Henly, Marlow, Maidenhead, Windsor,
Eaton, Staines, Chertsey, Weybridge, Shepperton, Walton, Sunbury,
Hampton, Thames Ditton, Kingston, Twickenham, Richmond, Shene,
Isleworth, Kew, Brentford, Mortlake, Barnes, Chiswick, Hammersmith,
Putney, Fulham, Wandsworth, Battersea, Chelsea, and Lambeth, from
whence both shores may be termed a continued city, through Westminster,
Southwark, and the city of London, Horselydown, Wapping, Rotherhith,
Shadwell, Ratcliff, Limehouse, almost to Deptford, and Greenwich; and
from thence this river proceeds to Woolwich, Erith, Grays, Gravesend
and Milton.

It is impossible to represent the beauties with which the banks of
this noble river are embellished from Windsor to London; the numerous
villages on both its banks being all along adorned with the magnificent
houses and fine gardens of the nobility.

A person unaccustomed to the sight, cannot behold without surprise the
vast number of barges and boats, as well of pleasure as of burden,
above bridge, continually passing and repassing for the convenience
and supply of the towns and counties washed by its gentle stream; and
much more observe the vast fleets which constantly appear below bridge,
carrying away the manufactures of Britain and bringing back the produce
of the whole earth.

We should be inexcusable, if we did not here introduce Sir John
Denham’s fine description of this river, in his _Cooper’s Hill_, as it
would be difficult to say any thing so just, and impossible to say any
thing so well upon the subject.

  My eye descending from the hill surveys
  Where Thames among the wanton valleys strays.
  Thames, the most lov’d of all the Ocean’s sons,
  By his old sire to his embraces runs,
  Hasting to pay his tribute to the sea,
  Like mortal life to meet eternity.
  Tho’ with those streams he no resemblance hold,
  Whose foam is amber, and their gravel gold;
  His genuin and less guilty wealth t’explore,
  Search not his bottom, but survey his shoar;
  O’er which he kindly spreads his spacious wing,
  And hatches plenty for th’ ensuing spring.
  Nor then destroys it with too fond a stay,
  Like mothers which their infants overlay.
  Nor with a sudden and impetuous wave,
  Like profuse Kings, resume the wealth he gave.
  No unexpected inundations spoil
  The mower’s hopes, nor mock the plowman’s toil:
  But godlike his unwearied bounty flows;
  First loves to do, then loves the good he does.
  Nor are his blessings to his banks confin’d,
  But free and common as the sea or wind;
  When he to boast, or to disperse his stores
  Full of the tributes of his greateful shores
  Visits the world, and in his flying tow’rs
  Brings home to us, and makes both Indies ours;
  Finds wealth where ’tis, bestows it where it wants,
  Cities in deserts, woods in cities plants.
  So that to us nothing, no place is strange,
  While his fair bosom is the world’s exchange.
    O could I flow like thee, and make thy stream
  My great example, as it is my theme!
  Tho’ deep yet clear, tho’ gentle, yet not dull,
  Strong without rage, without o’erflowing full.
  Heav’n her Eridanus no more shall boast,
  Whose fame in thine, like lesser currents lost.

The great advantage of this river is the tides flowing above seventy
miles up it, twice in every twenty-four hours, and hence arises its
great convenience with respect to trade and navigation; and as the
tide is influenced by the moon, so each tide is twenty-four minutes
later than that before, and therefore wants but twelve minutes of a
whole hour in twenty-four: by this rule the return of the tide at
any distance from the new or full moon may be easily computed by the
following tide table at London Bridge.

  +----------+--------------+
  |          |   Time of    |
  |          |  high-water  |
  |          |  at London.  |
  +----------+--------------+
  | N. Moon. | Hour.   Min. |
  | F. Moon. |   3          |
  +----------+--------------+
  |     1    |   3      48  |
  |     2    |   4      31  |
  |     3    |   5      14  |
  |     4    |   6      52  |
  |     5    |   6      30  |
  |     6    |   7       3  |
  |     7    |   7      36  |
  |     8    |   8      24  |
  |     9    |   9      27  |
  |    10    |  10      30  |
  |    11    |  11      28  |
  |    12    |  12      26  |
  |    13    |   1      19  |
  |    14    |   2      12  |
  +----------+--------------+

Any person who wants to be informed when it will be high-water at
London Bridge may by this table be immediately satisfied if he does but
know how many days it is since the last new or full moon; for supposing
it is the eighth day after, by looking at 8 in the first column he
finds the tide on that day is at the 8th hour and 24 minutes, or
twenty-four minutes past eight o’clock.

The Lord Mayor’s jurisdiction over the river Thames extends from
Colne ditch, a little to the westward of Staines bridge, to Yendal or
Yenleet, to the east, including part of the rivers Medway and Lea,
and his Lordship has a deputy or substitute named the water bailiff,
whose office is to search for, and punish, all offenders who infringe
the laws made for the preservation of the river and its fish. Eight
times in the year the Lord Mayor and aldermen sit in person in the four
counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent, and Essex, in order to maintain the
rights and privileges of this river, and to charge four juries by oath
to make inquisition after all offences committed on the river in order
to proceed to judgment against those who are found guilty.

The laws with respect to fishing and preserving the fry and spawn are
very numerous, among which are the following:

No fisherman shall use any net under two inches and a half in the mesh
above Richmond Crane, nor any net in the work called beating of the
bush, flag or reed, of less than three inches in the mesh; nor use any
weights or stones to their nets, upon the forfeiture of 2_l._ for each
offence.

That no pike net or other net or engine be drawn over the weeds for
catching of pikes by any fisherman within the jurisdiction of the Lord
Mayor, by reason it is destructive to, and occasions the driving of all
the other fish out of the western rivers, that would otherwise lie,
spawn, and breed in the weeds, upon the same penalty of 2_l._ for every
such offence.

That no fisherman shall bend any net by anchors, or otherwise, across
the channel, or so as to draw another net into it, whereby the spawn of
barbel and other fish may be destroyed, upon the forfeiture of the same
sum for each offence.

That no such person shall draw any net for salmon of less than three
inches in the mesh, from the 10th of March, till the 14th of September,
in any part of the river of Thames, from Kew pile westward, to the city
of London mark Stone above Stains bridge, upon forfeiture of 2_l._ for
every offence.

That no person shall take or sell any fish contrary to the ancient
assize: pike, fourteen inches; barbel, twelve inches; salmon, sixteen
inches; trout, eight inches; tench, eight inches; roach, six inches;
dace, six inches; and flounders, six inches.

That every fisherman shall have on his boat both his christian and
surname, and the name of his parish legibly painted, where any one may
see it; on the forfeiture of 1_l._ for every offence.

No person whatsoever shall fish for smelts or shads, or any other fish
whatsoever, or lay leaps, or rods, for eels in any place within the
Lord Mayor’s jurisdiction, without a licence from the water bailiff,
who shall appoint the proper seasons for fishing: And that upon every
such occasion all the fishermen shall upon due summons or notice given,
repair to the water bailiff at the chapel at Guildhall, to take out
their several licences for going to fish, and to hear the ordinances
for the preservation of the fisheries publicly read, that they may be
the better able to preserve and keep them; and that none go out to fish
without such a licence; and that every fisherman offending herein shall
pay 5_l._ for every such offence.

For the better preventing the use of unlawful nets or engines it is
farther ordained, that any person or persons authorized by the water
bailiff may enter any fishermens boats or vessels, to view and search
for all unsizeable nets and engines, and for any fish they shall
suspect to be taken contrary to the laws of this kingdom; to seize and
carry such nets to the water bailiff, with the names of the offenders,
that they may be brought to justice; likewise to seize the fish taken
contrary to law, and distribute it among the poor; and whosoever
shall resist or disturb the water bailiff, or his deputies, in their
searching for and seizing unlawful nets, engines, or fish, shall
forfeit twenty marks.

Tho’ the Thames is said to be navigable an hundred and thirty eight
miles above bridge, yet there are so many flats in that course, that
in the summer season the navigation westward would be entirely put a
stop to when the springs are low, were it not for a number of locks or
machines made of wood, placed quite across the river, and so contrived
as to confine the current of water as long as found convenient; that
is, till the water rises to such a height as to allow depth enough
for the barges to pass over the shallows; which being effected, the
confined water is set at liberty, and the loaded vessel proceeds on its
voyage, till another shoal requires the same contrivance to carry it
forward: but though this is a very great convenience yet it is attended
with considerable expence; for a barge passing from Lechlade to London
pays for passing through these locks 13_l._ 15_s._ 6_d._ and from Oxford
to London 12_l._ 18_s._ This charge is however only in summer when the
water is low: and there is no lock on this river from London Bridge to
Bolter’s lock, that is for the space of fifty-one miles and an half
above bridge.


THAMES _street_, is of a prodigious length, it extending from Black
Friars to Tower Dock. It is the first street that lies parallel to
the Thames, on its north bank, and is chiefly inhabited by wholesale
dealers.


THATCH’D _alley_, Chick lane.


THATCH’D HOUSE _alley_, in the Strand.


THATCH’D HOUSE _court_, St James’s street.


THAVIE’S INN, near the west end of St. Andrew’s church Holbourn,
is one of the inns of chancery, and is thus named from its founder
John Thavie, who liv’d in the reign of Edward III. It is a member of
Lincoln’s inn, and has been lately rebuilt in a very handsome manner.

This house is governed by a principal and eleven ancients, who, with
the other members, are to be ten days in commons in issuable terms, and
in each of the rest a week.


THAVIE’S INN _court_, Thavie’s inn.


THAVIE’S INN _passage_, Thavie’s inn.


THEATRES, there are only two theatres in this metropolis worthy of
notice, and these have no fronts to the street. They are both under
his Majesty’s companies of comedians, and no new play can be acted in
either without the approbation of the Lord Chamberlain, as well as
the managers. Drury Lane house appears to be best calculated for the
advantage of speaker and hearer, that of Covent Garden for splendor and
magnificence. Besides these there is also a theatre for the exhibition
of operas, call’d the Opera house, in the Haymarket.


THEATRE _court_, Vinegar yard, Drury lane.


THEOBALDS, a pleasant village in Cheshunt parish in Hertfordshire,
situated by the New River. Here the great Lord Burleigh built a
magnificent seat, the gallery, says Hentzner in his _Itinerarium_, was
painted with the genealogy of the Kings of England, and from thence was
a descent into the garden, which was encompassed with a ditch filled
with water, and large enough to have the pleasure of rowing in a boat
between the shrubs; it was adorned with a great variety of trees and
plants, labyrinths made with much labour, a jet d’eau with its bason
of white marble, and with columns and pyramids. In the summer house,
the lower part of which was built semicircularly, were the twelve Roman
Emperors in white marble, and a table of touchstone; the upper part of
it was set round with leaden cisterns, into which water was conveyed
through pipes. This seat the Lord Burleigh gave to his younger son Sir
Robert Cecil, in whose time King James I. staying there for one night’s
refreshment, as he was coming to take possession of the crown of
England, he was so delighted with the place that he gave him the manor
of Hatfield Regis in exchange for it, and afterwards enlarged the park,
and encompassed it with a wall ten miles round. This palace he often
visited, in order to enjoy the pleasure of hunting in Enfield Chase and
Epping Forest, and at last died there. In the civil wars it was however
plundered and defaced; it being the place from whence King Charles I.
set out to erect his standard at Nottingham: King Charles II. granted
the manor to George Monk, Duke of Albemarl; but it reverting again to
the crown, for want of heirs male, King William III. gave it to William
Bentinck, whom he created Earl of Portland, from whom it descended
to the Duke his grandson: the great park, a part of which was in
Hertfordshire, and a part in Middlesex, is now converted into farms.

Here are several houses belonging to persons of distinction, and in
this neighbourhood Richard Cromwell, who had been protector, but
abdicated, passed the last part of his life in a very private manner.


THEOBALD’S _court_, 1. in the Strand: 2. Theobald’s row.†


THEOBALD’S _row_, Red Lion street, Holbourn.†


THIEVING _lane_, King street, Westminster. So called from thieves
passing that way to the Gatehouse prison, during the continuance of the
sanctuary. _Maitland._


THISTLEWORTH, or ISLEWORTH. See ISLEWORTH. _Maitland._


_St._ THOMAS APOSTLES, a church which stood where the cemetry is now
in Queen street, Cheapside, and was of great antiquity, since we have
an account of the state thereof so early as the year 1181. It owes its
name to its dedication to St. Thomas the Apostle.

This church being destroyed by the dreadful fire of London in 1666, and
not rebuilt, the parish was by act of parliament united to the church
of St. Mary Aldermary, which is become the place of public worship for
both, whereby the incumbent’s profits are considerably increased.


_St._ THOMAS OF ACARS, or ACONS, an hospital formerly situated where
Mercers chapel now stands in Cheapside. This hospital was under this
name dedicated to St. Thomas a Becket archbishop of Canterbury,
probably upon the following occasion: when the city of Acars or Acon in
the Holy Land was besieged by the Christians, an Englishman, chaplain
to Radulphus de Diceto, dean of London, going to Jerusalem, bound
himself by a vow that if he should prosperously enter Acon he would
build a chapel to St. Thomas the Martyr at his own charge, and also
procure a church-yard to be consecrated there to the honour of that
supposed Martyr; this he actually performed, when many resorting to his
chapel, he took the character of prior, and employed himself sometimes
in fighting as a soldier, and at others, in burying the bodies of such
as died either naturally or were slain by the enemy. _Maitland._

Matthew Paris however says that the order of St. Thomas was instituted
by Richard surnamed Cœur de Lyon, after the surprisal of Acars, in
honour of Thomas a Becket; that they held the rule of St. Augustine,
and wore a white habit, and a full red cross, charged in the middle
with a white scallop, and that Peter de Rupibus, bishop of Winchester,
being in the Holy Land, caused the patriarch of Jerusalem to direct
that the brethren of this church should be under the order of the
Templars. _M. Paris in vita Hen._ III.

[Illustration:

    _S. Wale delin._      _Elliot. sculp._
         _S^t. Thomas’s Hospital._]

However it is evident, that as the Templars and other orders, formed
societies in England in imitation of those founded in Palestine,
so this in Cheapside was founded in imitation of that at Acon, and
therefore had the same name.

The revenue of this hospital, when it was surrendered to Henry VIII.
amounted to 277_l._ 3_s._ 4_d._ _per annum_. The edifice was soon after
purchased by the Mercer’s company. The image of Thomas a Becket
however stood over the gate, till the beginning of the reign of Queen
Elizabeth, when somebody threw it down, broke it, and stuck up a
writing on the church door, reflecting on those who placed it there.
See the article MERCERS.


THOMAS _court_, 1. Benjamin street: 2. Tackle Block court, Wapping.


_St._ THOMAS’S HOSPITAL, on the east side of the street called the
Borough in Southwark, is a very noble and extensive charity, for the
reception of the necessitous sick and wounded.

As to the origin of this hospital, it is to be observed, that the
priory of St. Mary Overies being destroyed by fire in the year 1207,
the canons erected at a small distance an occasional edifice to answer
the same purpose, till their monastery could be rebuilt; which being
accomplished, Peter de Rupibus, Bishop of Winchester, for the greater
convenience of air and water, pulled it down in 1215, and erected it
in a place where the prior of Bermondsey had two years before built
an almonry, or almshouse, for the reception of indigent children, and
necessitous proselytes; and having dedicated the new structure to St.
Thomas the Apostle, he endowed it with land to the value of 343_l._ a
year: from which time it was held of the abbot of Bermondsey, and ever
since an hospital has continued in the same place.

In 1428, one of the abbots granted the foundation lands to Nicholas
Buckland, the master of the hospital, and in that condition they
remained, till at the dissolution of religious houses in the reign of
Henry VIII. this fell with the rest.

In the year 1551 the Lord Mayor and Citizens having purchased of King
Edward VI. the manor of Southwark, with its appurtenances, for the
sum of 647_l._ 2_s._ 1_d._ a part whereof being this hospital, the city
immediately repaired and enlarged it at the expence of about 1100_l._
and in November following receiving into it two hundred and sixty poor
sick and helpless objects, the hospital still retained its antient
name, St. Thomas’s, and in 1553 the King incorporated a society
of persons for its government, in common with the two other great
charities, Bridewell and Christ’s Hospital.

Though the great fire of London in 1666 spared this hospital, it
destroyed a great part of its possessions, and two others which
happened a few years after in Southwark added to the distress. By these
accidents the hospital of St. Thomas was almost reduced to ruin. The
building was old, and wanted great repairs, and the funds that should
have supported it were exhausted; but the benevolence of the principal
persons in the city interposed for its preservation; the governors in
1699 set on foot a voluntary subscription, which they opened by large
donations from themselves and their friends, and the public followed
the example. The building was begun upon a larger and more commodious
plan, and erected at different times by the assistance of different
benefactors, till it became entirely completed, and consists in the
whole of three quadrangles or square courts.

Next the street is a handsome pair of large iron gates, with a door
of the same work on each side for the convenience of foot passengers.
These are fastened on the sides to a stone pier, on each of which is
a statue representing one of the patients. These gates open into a
very neat square court, encompassed on three sides with a colonade,
surrounded with benches next the wall, for people to sit down. On the
south under an empty niche is the following inscription,

  This building on the south side of this court, containing three wards,
  was erected at the charge of THOMAS FREDERICK of London, Esq; a worthy
  governor and liberal benefactor to this hospital, _Anno 1708_.

Under the same kind of niche on the opposite side is this inscription,

  This building on the north side of this court, containing three wards,
  was erected at the charge of THOMAS GUY, Esq; Citizen and Stationer of
  London, a worthy governor and bountiful benefactor to this hospital,
  _Anno 1707_.

The centre of the principal front, which is on the west side, facing
the street, is of stone. On the top is a clock under a small circular
pediment, and beneath that a niche with a statue of Edward VI. holding
a gilt sceptre in his right hand, and the charter in his left. A little
lower in niches on each side is a man with a crutch, and a sick woman:
and under them, in other niches, a man with a wooden leg, and a woman
with her arm in a sling: over the niches are festoons, and between the
last mentioned figures the King’s arms in relievo. Under which is the
following inscription,

  KING EDWARD the SIXTH, of pious memory, in the year of our Lord 1552
  founded and endowed this HOSPITAL of St. THOMAS the Apostle, _together
  with the Hospital of Christ and Bridewell in London_.

Underneath is a spacious passage down several steps into the second
court, which is by far the most elegant. It has colonades like the
former, except at the front of the chapel which is on the north side,
and is adorned with lofty pilasters of the Corinthian order, placed
on high pedestals which rise from the ground, and on the top is a
pediment, as there is also in the centre of the west and east sides:
and above the piazzas the fronts of the wards are ornamented with
handsome Ionic pilasters.

In the midst of this court is a good brass statue of King Edward VI.
by Mr. Scheemakers, and behind him is placed upon a kind of small
pedestal his crown laid upon a cushion. This statue is surrounded with
iron rails, and stands upon a lofty stone pedestal, upon which is the
following inscription in capitals:

            This statue
        Of King EDWARD the Sixth,
      A most excellent Prince,
   Of exemplary Piety and Wisdom
        above his years;
  The glory and ornament of his age,
    and most munificent founder
       Of this hospital,
    Was erected at the expence
  Of CHARLES JOYCE, Esquire,
    in the year MDCCXXXVII.

On the opposite face of the pedestal is the same inscription in Latin.

In the middle of the east side of this court is a spacious passage
into the next, the structure above being supported by rows of columns.
The buildings in the third court are older than the others, and are
entirely surrounded with a colonade, above which they are adorned with
a kind of long slender Ionic pilasters, with very small capitals. In
the centre is a stone statue of Robert Clayton, Esq; dressed in his
robes as Lord Mayor, surrounded with iron rails, upon the west side
of the pedestal is his arms in relievo, and on the south side the
following inscription:

  To Sir ROBERT CLAYTON, knight, born in Northamptonshire, Citizen and
  Lord Mayor of London, president of this hospital, and vice president
  of the new work-house, and a bountiful benefactor to it; a just
  magistrate, and brave defender of the liberty and religion of his
  country. Who (besides many other instances of his charity to the
  poor) built the girls ward in Christ’s hospital, gave first toward
  the rebuilding of this house 600_l._ and left by his last will 2300_l._
  to the poor of it. This statue was erected in his life time by the
  governors, _An. Dom._ MDCCI. as a monument of their esteem of so much
  worth; and to preserve his memory after death, was by them beautified
  _Anno Dom._ MDCCXIV.

By this noble charity many hundred thousand of the poor have since
its foundation received relief, and been cured of the various
disorders to which human nature is subject; and though the estates at
first belonging to this foundation were ruined, yet by the liberal
munificence of the citizens since that time, the annual disbursements
have of late amounted to near 8000_l._ The house contains nineteen
wards, and 474 beds, which are constantly kept filled, and they have
always a considerable number of out-patients.

The number of governors in this and the other city hospitals are
unlimited, and therefore uncertain. They chuse their own officers and
servants, both men and women: these are a president, a treasurer,
an hospitaller or chaplain, four physicians, three surgeons, an
apothecary, a clerk, a steward, a matron, a brewer and butcher, a cook,
assistant and servant, an assistant clerk in the compting house, two
porters, four beadles, nineteen sisters, nineteen nurses, nineteen
watch-women, a chapel clerk and sexton, and one watchman.


_St._ THOMAS’S _lane_, Drury lane.*


THOMAS’S _rents_, Fore street, Limehouse.


_St._ THOMAS’S _Southwark_, on the north side of St. Thomas’s street
was erected for the use of the above hospital, from which it is
denominated; but the number of houses and inhabitants having greatly
increased in the precinct of that hospital, it was judged necessary to
make the church parochial for the use of the inhabitants, and to erect
a chapel in the hospital for the use of the patients. This church is
therefore neither a rectory, vicarage, nor donative, but a sort of
impropriation in the gift of the hospital.

This church is a plain brick building enlightened by one series of
large windows, and the corners strengthened and adorned with rustic,
as is the corners of the tower. The principal door has a cornice
supported by scrolls and a circular pediment, and the tower, instead of
a balustrade, is crowned with a blocking course of the Attic kind.


_St._ THOMAS’S _street_, near St. Thomas’s hospital, in the Borough,
Southwark.


THOMAS _street_, 1. Coverleads Fields, Spitalfields. 2. Gainsford
street, Horselydown lane: 3. Shoreditch Fields: 4. Virginia row, East
Smithfield.


THOMPSON’S _rents_, 1. Halfmoon alley.† 2. London Wall.†


THOMPSON’S _yard_, upper ground, Southwark.†


THRALL _street_, Spitalfields.


THREADNEEDLE _alley_, Little Moorfields.


THREADNEEDLE _street_, extends from Princes street opposite the Lord
Mayor’s mansion-house, and running by the back of the Royal Exchange,
reaches into Bishopsgate street.


THREE ANCHOR _alley_, Shoe lane, Fleet street.*


THREE BELL _alley_, Whitechapel.*


THREE BOWL _alley_, Moorfields.*


THREE BOWL _court_, Houndsditch.*


THREE CCC _court_, Garlick hill, Thames street.*


THREE COLTS _alley_, 1. near Bishopsgate street within.* 2. Cinnamon
street.*


THREE COLTS _court_, Three Colts street Limehouse.*


THREE COLTS _corner_, St. John street.*


THREE COLTS _lane_, Air street, Spitalfields.*


THREE COLTS _street_, Limehouse.*


THREE COLTS _yard_, 1. Crutched Friars, near Tower Hill.* 2. London
Wall.* 3. Mile-end.* 4. Three Colts street.*


THREE COMPASSES _alley_, East Smithfield.*


THREE COMPASSES _court_, near Brook street.*


THREE CONEY _walk_, Butt’s street, Lambeth.*


THREE CRANE _court_, Southwark.*


THREE CRANE _lane_, Thames street.*


THREE CRANE _stairs_, at the bottom of Queen street, Cheapside.*


THREE CRANES, a street by Thames street.


THREE CRANE _wharf_, three Crane stairs.


THREE CROWN _court_, 1. in the Borough.* 2. Castle street.* 3. Foster
lane, Cheapside.* 4. Garlick hill, Thames street. 5. In the Minories.*
6. Poor Jewry lane, Aldgate.* 7. Wheeler street, Spitalfields.* 8.
White’s alley, Little Moorfields.*


THREE CROWN _yard_, Bride lane, Fleet street.


THREE CUP _alley_, 1. Dean street.* 2. Shoreditch.*


THREE CUP _yard_, Bedford street.*


THREE DAGGER _court_, 1. Fore street, Crippelgate.* 2. Old Change.*


THREE DIAMONDS _court_, Hosier lane, Smithfield.


THREE FALCONS _alley_, St. Margaret’s hill.*


THREE FALCONS _court_, 1. Fleet street.* 2. St. Margaret’s hill.*


THREE FOX _court_, 1. Clements lane.* 2. Long Acre.* 3. Long lane,
Smithfield.* 4. Narrow street, Ratcliff.* 5. Three Fox yard.*


THREE FOX _yard_, Ratcliff.*


THREE GRIFFIN _yard_, Aldgate street.*


THREE GUN _lane_, Three Colts street, Lambeth.*


THREE HAMMER _alley_, Green alley, Tooley street.*


THREE HATS _alley_, Horselydown lane.*


THREE HERRINGS _court_, 1. Creechurch lane, Leadenhall street.* 2.
Long Acre.* 3. Redcross street, Crippelgate.* 4. St. Thomas’s in the
Borough.*


THREE HOOP _yard_, Holiwell street.*


THREE HORSESHOE _alley_, Old street, Upper Moorfields.*


THREE HORSESHOE _court_, 1. Chick lane, Smithfield.* 2. Giltspur
street, without Newgate.* 3. Long lane, Smithfield.* 4. Whitecross
street, Cripplegate.*


THREE HORSESHOE _yard_, James’s street.*


THREE KING’S _court_, 1. Chandois street.* 2. Clement’s lane.* 3. Fleet
street.* 4. King street, Covent Garden.* 5. Lombard street.* 6. in the
Minories.* 7. Whitecross street, Cripplegate.*


THREE KING’S _yard_, David street, Grosvenor square.*


THREE LEG _alley_, East Harding street, by Shoe lane, Fleet street.*


THREE LEG _court_, Whitecross street, Cripplegate.*


THREE LINK _alley_, Fashion street, Spitalfields.*


THREE MARINERS _court_, Fleet street, Spitalfields.*


THREE MARINERS _stairs_, Rotherhith.*


THREE MOULDS _court_, Cherry-tree alley.*


THREE NEEDLE _alley_, Moorfields.*


THREE NUNS _alley_, Threadneedle street.*


THREE NUNS _court_, Threadneedle street.*


THREE NUNS _yard_, Whitechapel.*


THREE OAKS _lane_, Horselydown.*


THREE PIGEONS _alley_, Hockley in the Hole.*


THREE PIGEONS _court_, 1. Barbican, Aldersgate street.* 2. Jewin
street, Aldersgate street.* 3. Moorfields.*


THREE SISTERS _court_, St. Catharine’s court, by the Tower.*


THREE SLIPPER _court_, Bishopsgate street.*


THREE STEP _alley_, Rotherhith.


THREE STILLS _court_, Bishopsgate without.*


THREE TUNS _alley_, 1. Bishopsgate street without.* 2. Cowcross,
Smithfield.* 3. London wall.* 4. St. Margaret’s hill, Southwark.* 5.
Petticoat lane, Whitechapel.* 6. Thames street.* 7. Tothill street,
Westminster.* 8. White street by Kent street, Southwark.*


THREE TUNS _court_, 1. Crooked lane.* 2. Brown’s street.* 3. Halfmoon
alley.* 4. Hart street, Mark lane.* 5. Ivy lane, Newgate street.*
6. St. Margaret’s hill, Southwark.* 7. St Michael’s lane, Great
Eastcheap.* 8. Moorfields.* 9. Nightingale lane East Smithfield.*
10. Old Castle street, Wentworth street.* 11. Redcross street,
Cripplegate.* 12. Threadneedle street.*


THREE TUNS _yard_, Cloth fair, Smithfield.*


THREE TWISTERS _alley_, Bunhill row.*


THRIFT _street_, Soho.†


THRIFT’S _alley_, Spring street.†


THROGMORTON _street_, extends from Broad street to the end of
Bartholomew lane.


THROWSTERS _yard_, Lamb alley.


THRUM _street_, King street, Cheapside.


THRUM _yard_, Sutton street.


THUNDERBOLT _alley_, Windmill row. Upper Moorfields.


THWAIT’S _rents_, Newington Causeway.†


TICHBOURN _court_, 1. Holbourn.† 2. Vine yard, Drury lane.†


TICHFIELD _street_, 1. Chapel street: 2. Margaret street.†


TIDEWAITERS _court_, Little Minories.


TILBURY, or WEST TILBURY, a very ancient town in Essex, situated near
the Thames; here the four proconsular ways made by the Romans, crossed
each other, and in the year 630, this was the see of a bishop named
Ceadda, who converted the East Saxons, In the reigns of Edward I.
Edward II. and Edward III. it was held of the crown by the family of
the Tilburies, and from them probably took its name. It is situated by
level unhealthy marshes called the Three Hundreds, which are rented by
the farmers, salesmen and grazing butchers of London, who generally
stock them with Lincolnshire and Leicestershire weathers, which are
sent hither from Smithfield in September and October, and fed here till
Christmas or Candlemas; and this is what the butchers call right marsh
mutton.


TILBURY _fort_, is situated in the marsh on the bank of the Thames, at
some distance from the above town, from which it took its name, and
is placed opposite to Gravesend. It is a regular fortification, and
may justly be termed the key of the city of London. The plan was laid
by Sir Martin Beckman, chief engineer to King Charles II. who also
designed the works at Sheerness. It was intended to be a pentagon, but
the water bastion was never built.

The foundation is laid upon piles driven down in two ranges, one
over the other, which reach below the channel of the river, and the
lowermost being pointed with iron, enter the solid chalk rock, which
extends under the Thames and joins to the chalk hills on the other
side. The esplanade of the sort is very large, and the bastions which
are faced with brick are said to be the largest of any in England. It
has a double moat, the innermost of which is 180 feet broad; with a
good counterscarp, a covered way, ravelins, and terails. On the land
side are also two small redoubts of brick; but its chief strength on
that side consists in its being able to lay the whole level under
water, and by that means to render it impossible for an enemy to carry
on approaches that way.

On the side next the river is a very strong curtain, with a noble gate,
called the water-gate in the middle, and the ditch is palisadoed.
Before this curtain is a platform in the place of a counterscarp, on
which are planted 106 cannon, carrying from 24 to 46 pounds each,
besides smaller ones planted between them; and the bastions and
curtains are also planted with guns. Here likewise is a high tower
called the blockhouse, which is said to have been built in the reign of
Queen Elizabeth.


TILERS and BRICKLAYERS, a fraternity of considerable antiquity, though
it was not incorporated till the year 1568, when Queen Elizabeth
granted them letters patent.

This company consists of a master, two wardens, thirty-eight
assistants, and 103 liverymen, who, upon their admission, pay a fine of
12_l._

They have a convenient hall in a court in Leadenhall street. _Maitland._


TILT _yard_, Whitehall. So called from the tilts and tournaments
formerly used there. _Maitland._


TIN PLATE WORKERS, a company incorporated by letters patent granted by
King Charles II. in the year 1670; by the name of _the master, wardens,
assistants and commonalty of the art and mystery of Tin_ _Plate
Workers_, alias _Wire Workers of the city of London_.

This fraternity is governed by a master, two wardens, and twenty
assistants; but has neither hall nor livery. _Maitland._


TINDERBOX _alley_, Norton Falgate.


TINDERBOX _court_, White Lion yard.


TITE’S _alley_, Limehouse.†


TITTENHANGER, three miles south-east of St. Albans, is situated near
Colney, and is a very handsome seat belonging to Sir Henry Pope Blunt,
Bart.


TITMOUSE _alley_, Farmer’s street, Shadwell.


TITUS’S _court_, Holbourn hill.†


TOBACCOPIPE _alley_, 1. Little St. Anne’s lane.* 2. Sun yard,
Nightingale lane, East Smithfield.*


TOBACCOPIPE MAKERS, a company incorporated by letters patent, granted
by King Charles II. in the year 1663.

They are governed by a master, two wardens, and eighteen assistants;
but have neither hall nor livery. _Maitland._


TOBACCOPIPE _yard_, Old Gravel lane, Ratcliff Highway.*


TOBACCO ROLL _court_, 1. Gracechurch street*, 2. Long _alley_,
Moorfields.*


TOBACCO ROLL _yard_, Sun yard, Nightingale lane.*


TOKENHOUSE _yard_, 1. Leadenhall street: 2. A very handsome place in
Lothbury, chiefly inhabited by merchants.


TOM’S _yard_, Whitechapel.†


TONGUE’S _alley_, Whitechapel.†


TONGUE’S _yard_, Whitechapel.†


TONSON’S _wharf_, Puddle Dock.†


TOOLEY’S _gate_, Tooley street.†


TOOLEY’S _gate yard_, Tooley street.†


TOOLEY’S _stairs_, Tooley street.†


TOOLEY _street_, the first street in Southwark next London Bridge.†


TOOLEY’S _Watergate_, Tooley street.†


TOOLEY’S _Watergate stairs_, Tooley street.†


TORMENT _hill_, Broadway.


TOTHIL _court_, Tothil street.


TOTHILFIELDS, Peter street, Westminster.


TOTHILFIELDS SCHOOL, situated in Rochester row, Tothilfields, was
founded by Emery Hill, Esq; in the year 1667, for the instruction of
twenty boys of the parish of St. Margaret, Westminster, in english,
latin, writing and arithmetic. _Maitland._


TOTHIL SIDE, Tothilfields.


TOTHIL _street_, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster.


TOTTENHAM COURT, a pleasant village situated between St. Giles’s and
Hampstead.


TOTTENHAM _court road_, St. Giles’s.


TOTTENHAM HIGH CROSS, a village on the west side of the river Lea,
five miles north-east from London in the road to Ware. David King of
Scotland being possessed of this manor, after it had belonged to the
Earls of Northumberland and Chester, gave it to the monastery of the
Trinity in London; but Henry VIII. granted it to William Lord Howard
of Effingham, who being afterwards attainted, it reverted again to the
King, who then granted it to the dean and chapter of St. Paul’s to
whom it still belongs. The present Earl of Northumberland and the Lord
Colerain have seats here, and there are also a great number of pretty
houses belonging to the citizens of London, the church stands on a
hill, which has a little river called the Mosel at the bottom, to the
west, north and east.

The parish is divided into four wards, viz. 1. Nether ward, in which
stands the parsonage and vicarage: 2. Middle ward, comprehending Church
end, and Marsh street. 3. High Cross ward, containing the hall, the
mill, Page green, and the High cross; and 4. Wood Green ward, which
comprehends all the rest of the parish, and is bigger than the three
other wards put together.

The cross, which gives name to the place, was once much higher than it
is at present, and upon that spot Queen Eleanor’s corps was rested,
when on the road from Lincolnshire to London. St. Loy’s well, in this
parish, is said to be always full, and never to run over; and the
people report many strange cures performed at Bishop’s Well. In 1596,
an almshouse was founded here by one Zancher, a Spaniard, the first
confectioner ever known in this kingdom. Here are also a free-school,
and a charity school for twenty-two girls, who are cloathed and taught.


TOWER _of London_, on the east side of the city, near the Thames. This
edifice, at first consisted of no more than what is at present called
the White Tower; and without any credible authority, has been vulgarly
said to have been built by Julius Cæsar; though there is the strongest
evidence of its being marked out, and a part of it first erected by
William the Conqueror in the year 1076, doubtless with a view to secure
to himself and followers a safe retreat, in case the English should
ever have recourse to arms to recover their liberties. That this was
the Conqueror’s design, evidently appears from its situation on the
east side of London, and its communication with the Thames, whence it
might be supplied with men, provisions, and military stores, and it
even still seems formed for a place of defence rather than offence.

[Illustration:
    _S. Wale delin._      _Elliot sculp._
                 _The Tower._]

However the death of the Conqueror in 1087, about eight years after he
had begun this fortress, for some time prevented its progress, and left
it to be completed by his son William Rufus, who in 1098 surrounded it
with walls, and a broad and deep ditch, which was in some places 120
feet wide, several of the succeeding Princes added additional works,
and Edward III. built the church.

Since the restoration, it has been thoroughly repaired: in 1663 the
ditch was scoured; all the wharfing about it was rebuilt with brick
and stone, and sluices made for letting in and retaining the Thames
water as occasion may require: the walls of the White Tower, have been
repaired; and a great number of additional buildings have been added.
At present, besides the White Tower, are the offices of Ordnance, of
the Mint, of the keepers of the records, the jewel office, the Spanish
armoury, the horse armoury, the new or small armoury, barracks for the
soldiers, handsome houses for the chief officers residing in the Tower,
and other persons; so that the Tower now seems rather a town than a
fortress. Lately new barracks were also erected on the Tower wharf; and
the ditch was in the year 1758, railed round to prevent for the future
those melancholy accidents which have frequently happened to people
passing over Tower Hill in the dark.

The Tower is in the best situation that could have been chosen for a
fortress, it lying only 800 yards to the eastward of London Bridge, and
consequently near enough to cover this opulent city from invasion by
water. It is to the north of the river Thames, from which it is parted
by a convenient wharf and narrow ditch, over which is a drawbridge, for
the readier taking in or sending out ammunition and naval or military
stores. Upon this wharf is a line of about sixty pieces of iron cannon,
which are fired upon days of state.

Parallel to this part of the wharf upon the walls is a platform seventy
yards in length called the Ladies line, from its being much frequented
in summer evenings by the ladies, as on the inside it is shaded with
a row of lofty trees, and without affords a fine prospect of the
shipping, and of the boats passing and repassing the river. The ascent
to this line is by stone steps, and being once upon it, you may walk
almost round the Tower walls without interruption, in doing which you
will pass three batteries, the first called the Devil’s battery, where
is a platform, on which are mounted seven pieces of cannon: the next
is named the Stone battery, and defended by eight pieces of cannon;
and the last, called the Wooden battery is mounted with six pieces of
cannon: all these are brass, and nine pounders.

But to return to the wharf, which is divided from Tower Hill at each
end, by gates opened every morning for the convenience of a free
intercourse between the respective inhabitants of the tower, the city,
and its suburbs. From this wharf is an entrance for persons on foot
over the drawbridge, already mentioned; and also a water-gate under
the Tower wall, commonly called Traitor’s Gate, through which it
has been customary, for the greater privacy, to convey traitors and
other state prisoners by water, to and from the Tower: the water of
the ditch having here a communication with the Thames, by means of a
stone bridge on the wharf. However the Lords committed to the Tower
for the last rebellion, were publicly admitted at the main entrance.
Over this water-gate, is a regular building terminated at each end by
a round tower, on which are embrasures for cannon, but at present none
are mounted there. In this building are an infirmary, a mill, and the
water-works that supply the Tower with water.

The principal entrance into the Tower is by two gates to the west, one
within the other, and both large enough to admit coaches and heavy
carriages. Having passed thro’ the first of these you proceed over a
strong stone bridge, built over the ditch, which on the right-hand
leads to the lions tower, and to a narrow passage to the draw bridge on
the wharf, while on the left-hand is a kind of street in which is the
Mint. The second gate is at a small distance beyond the lions tower,
and is much stronger than the first, it has a portcullis to let down
upon occasion, and is guarded not only by some soldiers, but by the
warders of the Tower, whose dress and appearance will be immediately
described.

_The Officers of the Tower._ The principal of these to whom the
government of the Tower is committed, are, first the Constable of
the Tower, who has 1000_l._ _per annum_, and is usually a person of
quality, as his post at all coronations and state ceremonies, is of
the utmost importance, and as the crown and other regalia are in his
custody: he has under him a Lieutenant, and a deputy Lieutenant; these
officers are likewise of great dignity; the first has 700_l._ a
year, and the last, who is commonly called the Governor of the Tower,
has 1_l._ a day. The other officers are, a tower-major, a chaplain, a
physician, a gentleman-porter, a yeoman-porter, a gentleman-jailer,
four quarter-gunners, and forty warders, who wear the same uniform as
the King’s yeomen of the guard. They have round flat crowned caps,
with bands of party-coloured ribbands: Their coats, which are of a
particular make, but very becoming, have large sleeves, and very full
skirts gathered round, somewhat in the manner of a petticoat. These
coats are of fine scarlet cloth, laced round the edges and seams with
several rows of gold lace, and girt round their waists with a broad
laced girdle. Upon their breasts and backs they wear the King’s silver
badge, an embroidered thistle and rose, and the letters G. R. in very
large capitals.

_The ceremony at opening and shutting the gates._ This is done every
morning and night with great formality. A little before six in the
morning in summer, and as soon as it is well light in winter, the
yeoman-porter goes to the Governor’s house for the keys, and from
thence proceeds back to the innermost gate, attended by a serjeant and
six of the main guard. This gate being opened to let them pass, is
again shut; while the yeoman-porter and the guard proceed to open the
outermost gates, at each of which the guards rest their firelocks, as
do the spur-guard, while the keys pass and repass. The yeoman-porter
then returning to the innermost gate, calls to the warders in waiting
to take in King George’s keys; whereupon the gate is opened, and the
keys lodg’d in the warders hall, till the time of locking them up
again, which is usually about ten or eleven at night, with the same
formality as when opened. After they are shut, the yeoman and guard
proceed to the main guard, who are all under arms, with the officers
upon duty at their head. The usual challenge from the main guard is,
_Who comes here?_ To which the yeoman-porter answers _The keys_. The
challenger returns _Pass keys_, and the officer orders the guard to
rest their firelocks; upon which the yeoman-porter says, _God save
King George_, and _Amen_ is loudly answered by all the guard. The
yeoman-porter then proceeds with his guard to the Governor’s, where the
keys are left; after which no person can go out, or come in upon any
pretence whatsoever till the next morning, without the watch-word for
the night, which is kept so secret, that none but the proper officers,
and the serjeant upon guard, ever come to the knowledge of it; for it
is the same on the same night, in every fortified place throughout
England. But when that is given by any stranger to the centinel at
the spur-guard, or outer gate, he communicates it to his serjeant,
who passes it to the next on duty, and so on till it comes to the
Governor, or commanding officer, by whom the keys are delivered to the
yeoman-porter, who, attended as before, the main guard being put under
arms, brings them to the outer gate, where the stranger is admitted,
and conducted to the Governor; when having made known his business,
he is conducted back to the outer gate; and dismissed, the gate shut,
and the keys delivered again with the same formality as at first. It
is happy for us that all this seems mere form and parade; but it is
however fit that all this ceremony should be duly observed.

_The Lions Tower._ In examining the curiosities of the Tower, it will
be proper to begin with those on the outside the principal gate,
the first thing a stranger, usually goes to visit is the wild beasts,
which from their situation first present themselves: for having entered
the outer gate, and passed what is called the spur-guard, the keeper’s
house presents itself before you, which is known by a painted lion on
the wall, and another over the door which leads to their dens; and by
ringing a bell, and paying six pence each person, you may easily gain
admittance.

At your entrance, you come to a range of dens in the form of an half
moon. These dens are rooms about twelve or thirteen feet high,
divided into two apartments, the upper and the lower. In the upper
apartment the beasts generally live in the day, and at night retire
into the lower to rest: you view them through large iron grates, like
those before the windows of a prison; so that you may see them with the
utmost safety, be they ever so savage. Some of these dens are empty,
and other inhabited by lionesses of different ages, who are here kept
with the utmost care, particularly while young; for hardly any creature
is more tender than a lion’s whelp, and they would here infallibly
perish, were they not immediately taken from their dams as soon as
whelped; for even in Barbary, where they are a part of the inhabitants
of the woods and forests, many of them die in strong convulsions, from
the pain they suffer in breeding their teeth. Those bred in the Tower
are kept twelve months in a warm room, and fed mostly with milk diet,
before they are put into their dens: when about five or six weeks old,
they are as gentle as a lamb; but it is observed, that their savage
nature gradually increases with their growth, which at three years is
at the full, and then they seem as fierce as those brought from abroad.

The first they shew is Dido, a beautiful lioness, about twelve years
of age; and the next is a young lioness from Africa, that used to play
with her keeper like a puppy. She was taken by a negroe boy, as she was
drinking in the river Gambia, on the coast of Africa, when no bigger
than a cat; for the boy being sent to fetch water, found her without
her dam, and carried her home: but the dam afterwards coming in search
of her, and not finding her, ran roaring about, and killed several
negroes, the cattle and every living thing that came in her way. The
boy and the lioness were bought by the French, but being taken in their
passage to Europe, were sent to the Tower, where she seemed incredibly
fond of the young negroe.

After having seen another lioness or two, you are conducted to another
range, where you are shewn a fine leopard, and three most beautiful
tygers. The tyger, in shape resembles a cat, only is much larger, and
when wild is extremely fierce and ravenous, it lurks in the woods,
and seizes its prey by a sudden spring, and men in traversing the
desarts, are frequently surprized by this animal. These tygers are
finely spotted or streaked with black upon a yellowish ground. They
are full of play, and leap a prodigious height, when, like a cat, they
are playing their gambols. As to the leopard, he is a most beautiful
creature; his colour is a shining yellow, finely interspersed with
bright spots. No description can give the reader a complete idea of
these beasts; for every image that words can convey, must fall short of
that original beauty stamped upon them by nature.

Having satisfied your curiosity with the sight of these extraordinary
beasts, you are shewn a variety of birds, among which is a golden
eagle, a noble bird that has been kept here above ninety years; besides
which there are other eagles from different countries, all of them
having something different in their shape or colour, by which a curious
observer may easily distinguish them.

You are next shewn an horned owl, which is a very surprizing bird,
and as there is not perhaps such another in England, we shall give a
particular description of it. Its head seems full as big as that of a
cat, and its eyes, which are large, have circles round them of a bright
shining gold colour. The feathers that compose the horns begin just
above the eyes, and rise intermixed with a little white; but as they
extend beyond the head, become of a red brown clouded with a more dusky
colour, and are tipp’d with black. The spaces round the eyes, which
compose the face, are of a light brown, confusedly mixed with orange
colour, gradually becoming more dusky as it borders on the eyes. The
top of the head, neck, back, wings, and upper side of the tail are of a
dark brown, spotted and intermixed with some confused transverse small
lines of ash colour and reddish. The great wing-feathers, and the tail,
are barred across with dusky bars of half an inch in breadth, more or
less; but between the back and wings the feathers are of an ash colour.
The fore part of the neck and breast are a bright brown, inclining to
orange, which gradually grows fainter on the sides. This brown part
is spotted with pretty large dark spots, and intermixed between them,
with the same dusky colour. The middle of the breast, belly, thighs,
and under side of the tail are a faint ash colour, pretty regularly
barred transversely with dusky lines; and the inside of the wings are
coloured and variegated in the same manner: the legs and toes, almost
to the ends are covered with light ash coloured feathers, and the ends
of the toes and the claws, are of a dark horn colour, and very strong
and sharp.

From these extraordinary birds you are conducted to a den where you
are shewn the Great Pompey, the finest and largest lion ever seen in
England; he is about twelve years of age, and of a noble and majestic
appearance. His head is large, and his neck covered with a long shagged
mane that reaches to his shoulders. He is of a yellowish colour, and
about four feet high; his body is small in proportion to his head; but
his legs have the appearance of amazing strength; his large muscles
being very visible. The bones of his fore-legs seem about the thickness
of a man’s wrist, and his fore-feet are armed with five prodigious
claws, sheathed like those of a cat, with which he seizes his prey like
that animal; but his hinder feet have only four. He seems very gentle
and tractable to his feeder, and will lie down and let him play with
him like a spaniel.

You are next shewn what your guides call their school of apes, which
consists of two apes from Turky, and two Egyptian night-walkers. Of the
largest of these creatures they will tell you abundance of surprizing
stories. There are also one or two man tygers, a man of the wood, a
Guinea racoon, much more beautiful than those brought from America; a
jackal, a fine tyger cat, two large hyenas, a male and a female, and a
very uncommon beast which the keeper calls the whistler of the woods.
This is a beautiful little creature of the size of a badger, brought
from Guinea, and receives her name from her counterfeiting in the woods
the whistling and chirping of birds, by which she allures them to her,
and so makes them her prey.

These animals are all regularly fed with proper food, and attended with
all possible care.

But to proceed; the next place worthy of observation is the Mint, which
comprehends near one third of the Tower, and contains houses for all
the officers belonging to the coinage. See the article MINT.

_The white Tower_, on passing the principal gate you see the White
Tower, built, as has been already said, by William the Conqueror. This
is a large, square, irregular stone building, situated almost in the
centre, no one side answering to another, nor any of its watch towers,
of which there are four at the top, built alike. One of these towers is
now converted into an observatory.

The building itself consists of three very lofty stories, under which
are spacious and commodious vaults, chiefly filled with saltpetre.
It is covered on the top with flat leads, from whence there is an
extensive and delightful prospect.

In the first story are two noble rooms, one of which is a small armoury
for the sea service, it having various sorts of arms very curiously
laid up, for above 10,000 seamen. In the other room are many closets
and presses, all filled with warlike engines and instruments of death.
Over this are two other floors, one principally filled with arms; the
other with arms and other warlike instruments, as spades, shovels,
pick-axes, and cheveaux de Frize. In the upper story are kept match,
sheep-skins, tanned hides, &c. and in a little room called Julius
Cæsar’s chapel are deposited some records, containing perhaps the
ancient usages and customs of the place. In this building are also
preserved models of the new invented engines of destruction that have
from time to time been presented to the government.

On the top of one of the towers is a large cistern or reservoir for
supplying the whole garrison with water; it is about seven feet deep,
nine broad, and about sixty in length, and is filled from the Thames by
means of an engine very ingeniously contrived for that purpose.

_The Spanish Armoury._ Near the south-west angle of the White Tower
is the Spanish armoury, in which are deposited the spoils of what was
vainly called the Invincible Armada, in order to perpetuate to latest
posterity the memory of that signal victory obtained by the English
over the whole naval power of Spain in the reign of Philip II. which
will ever render the glorious name of Queen Elizabeth dear to Britons:
for of 132 ships that arrived in the British channel; scarce 70 of
them returned home, and of 30,000 men on board, upwards of 20,000 were
either killed, drowned, or made prisoners in England, such was the fate
of this vain-glorious enterprize!

The trophies preserved here of this memorable victory, with some other
curiosities are,

1. A Spanish battle-ax, so contrived as to strike four holes in a man’s
skull, at once; it has besides a pistol in its handle with a match-lock.

2. The Spanish General’s halbert, covered with velvet. All the nails
are double gilt, and on the top is the pope’s head, curiously engraven.

3. The Spanish morning star; a destructive engine in the form of a
star; of which there were many thousands on board, and all of them
with poisoned points; designed to strike at the English, in case they
boarded them.

4. Thumb screws, of which there were several chests full on board the
Spanish fleet. The use they were intended for is said to have been
to extort confession from the English where their money was hid, had
they prevailed.——Certain it is, that; after the defeat, the whole
conversation of the court and country turned upon the discoveries
made by the Spanish prisoners of the racks, the wheels, and the whips
of wire, with which they were to scourge the English of every rank,
age, and sex. The most noted hereticks were to be put to death; those
who survived were to be branded on the forehead with a hot iron; and
the whole form of government, both in church and state, was to be
overturned.

5. A Spanish poll-ax, used in boarding of ships.

6. Spanish halberts, or spears, some of them curiously engraved and
inlaid with gold.

7. Spanish spadas, or long swords, poison’d at the points, so that if a
man received but ever so slight a wound, it would prove certain death.

8. Spanish cravats, as they are called; these are engines of torture,
made of iron, and put on board to lock the feet, arms, and heads of
English Hereticks together.

9. Spanish bilboes, also made of iron, to yoke the English prisoners
two and two.

10. Spanish shot, which are of four sorts; spike-shot, star-shot,
chain-shot, and link-shot; all admirably contrived, as well for the
destruction of the masts and rigging of ships, as for sweeping the men
off the decks.

11. The banner, with a crucifix upon it, which was to have been carried
before the Spanish General. Upon it is the Pope’s benediction before
the Spanish fleet sailed; for the Pope, it is said, came to the water
side, and seeing the fleet, blessed it, and stiled it INVINCIBLE.

12. An uncommon piece of arms, being a pistol in a shield, so contrived
that the pistol might be fired, and the body covered at the same time.
It is to be fired by a match-lock, and the sight of the enemy taken
through a little grate in the shield, which is pistol proof.

13. The Spanish rançeur, made in different forms, and intended either
to kill the men on horseback, or to pull them off their horses. At
the back is a spike, which your attendants say, was to pick the roast
beef out of the Englishmen’s teeth. And on one of them is a piece of
silver coin, which they intended to make current in England. On this
coin are three heads, suppos’d to be the Pope’s, Philip the II’s and
Queen Mary’s.——This is a curiosity which most Spaniards who arrive in
London come to see.

14. The Spanish officers lances finely engraved. These were formerly
gilt, but the gilding is now almost worn off with cleaning. ’Tis said,
that when Don Pedro de Valdez, a captain of one of the Spanish ships
that was taken, passed his examination before Lord Burleigh, he told
his Lordship, that those fine polish’d lances were put on board to
bleed the English with; to which that Nobleman, merrily replied, that,
if he were not mistaken, the English had performed that operation
better on their good friends the Spaniards with worse instruments.

15. The common soldiers pikes eighteen feet in length, pointed with
long sharp spikes, and shod with iron; designed to keep off the horse,
to facilitate the landing of their foot.

16. The last thing shewn of these memorable spoils, is the Spanish
General’s shield, not worn by him; but carried before him as an ensign
of honour. Upon it are depicted in most curious workmanship, some of
the labours of Hercules, and other allegories which seem to throw a
shade upon the boasted skill of modern artists. This was made near an
hundred years before the art of printing was known in England: and upon
it is the following inscription in Roman characters, ADVLTERIO DEIANIRA
CONSPURCANS OCCIDITR CACVS AB HERCVL. OPPRIMITVR 1379.

17. The other curiosities deposited here, are Danish and Saxon clubs,
weapons which each of those people are said to have used in their
conquest of England. These are, perhaps, curiosities of the greatest
antiquity of any in the Tower, they having lain there above 850
years. The warders call them the Womens weapons, because, say they,
“the British women made prize of them, when, in one night, they all
conspired together, and cut the throats, of 35,000 Danes; the greatest
piece of secrecy the English women ever kept, for which they have ever
since been honoured with the right-hand of the man, the upper end of
the table, and the first cut of every dish of victuals they happen
to like best.” The massacre of the Danes, was not however performed
by the women alone, but by the private orders of Ethelred II. who in
1012, privately commanded his officers to extirpate those cruel and
tirannical invaders.

18. King Henry the VIII’s walking staff, which has three match-lock
pistols in it, with coverings to keep the charges dry. “With this
staff, the warders tell you, the King sometimes walked round the city,
to see that the constables did their duty; and one night, as he was
walking near the bridge foot, the constable stopt him to know what he
did with such an unlucky weapon, at that time of the night. Upon which
the King struck him; but the constable calling the watch-men to his
assistance, his Majesty was apprehended, and carried to the Poultry
Compter, where he lay till morning, without either fire or candle. When
the keeper was informed of the rank of his prisoner, he dispatched a
messenger to the constable, who came trembling with fear, expecting
nothing less than to be hanged, drawn and quartered: but instead of
that, the King applauded him for his resolution in doing his duty,
and made him a handsome present. At the same time he settled upon
St. Magnus’s parish an annual grant of 23_l._ and a mark, and made a
provision for furnishing thirty chaldron of coals and a large allowance
of bread annually for ever, towards the comfortable relief of his
fellow prisoners and their successors; which, the warders say, is paid
them to this day.”

19. A large wooden cannon called _Policy_, because, as we are informed,
when King Henry VIII. besieged Bulloign, the roads being impassable
for heavy cannon, he caused a number of these wooden ones to be made,
and mounted on proper batteries before the town, as if real cannon;
which so terrified the French commandant, that he gave up the place
without firing a shot.——The truth is, the Duke of Suffolk, who
commanded at this siege under the King, soon made himself master of
the lower town; but it was not till seven weeks afterwards that the
upper town capitulated, in which time the English sustained great loss
in possessing themselves of the Bray. The warders must therefore be
greatly mistaken in their account of this piece.

20. The ax with which Queen Anne Bullen, the mother of Queen Elizabeth,
was beheaded, on the 19th of May 1536. The Earl of Essex, Queen
Elizabeth’s favourite, was also beheaded with the same ax.

21. A small train of ten pieces of pretty little cannon, neatly mounted
on proper carriages, being a present from the foundery of London to
King Charles I. when a child, to assist him in learning the art of
gunnery.

22. Weapons made with the blades of scithes fixed strait to the end
of poles. These were taken from the Duke of Monmouth’s party, at the
battle of Sedgemoore, in the reign of James II.

23. The partizans that were carried at the funeral of King William III.

24. The perfect model of the admirable machine, the idea of which was
brought from Italy by Sir Thomas Lombe, and first erected at Derby, at
his own expence, for making orgazine or thrown silk. This model is well
worth the observation of the curious.

You now come to the grand storehouse, a noble building to the northward
of the White Tower, that extends 245 feet in length, and 60 in breadth.
It was begun by King James II. who built it to the first floor; but it
was finished by King William III. who erected that magnificent room
called the New, or Small Armoury, in which that prince, with Queen
Mary, his consort, dined in great form, having all the warrant workmen
and labourers to attend them, dressed in white gloves and aprons, the
usual badges of the order of masonry.

This structure is of brick and stone, and on the north side is a
stately door case adorned with four columns, with their entablature and
triangular pediment of the Doric order, and under the pediment are the
King’s arms, with enrichments of trophy work.

_The Small Armoury._ To this noble room you are led by a folding door
adjoining to the east end of the Tower chapel, which leads to a grand
staircase of fifty easy steps. On the left-side of the uppermost
landing-place is the workshop, in which are constantly employed about
fourteen furbishers, in cleaning, repairing, and new placing the arms.

On entering the armoury you see what they call a wilderness of arms,
so artfully disposed, that at one view you behold arms for near 80,000
men, all bright, and fit for service at a moment’s warning: a sight
which it is impossible to behold without astonishment, and besides
those exposed to view, there were before the present war sixteen chests
shut up, each chest holding about 1200 muskets. Of the disposition
of the arms no adequate idea can be formed by description; but the
following account may enable the spectator to view them to greater
advantage, and help him to retain what he sees.

The arms were originally disposed in this manner by Mr. Harris, who
contrived to place them in this beautiful order both here and in the
guard chamber of Hampton Court. He was a common gunsmith, but after
he had performed this work, which is the admiration of people of all
nations, he was allowed a pension from the crown for his ingenuity.

The north and south walls are each adorned with eight pilasters, formed
of pikes sixteen feet long, with capitals of the Corinthian order
composed of pistols.

At the west end, on the left-hand, as you enter, are two curious
pyramids of pistols, standing upon crowns, globes, and scepters, finely
carved and placed upon pedestals five feet high.

At the east, or farther end, in the opposite corner are two suits of
armour, one made for that warlike prince Henry V. and the other for his
son Henry VI. over each of which is a semicircle of pistols: between
these is represented an organ, the large pipes composed of brass
blunderbusses, the small of pistols. On one side of the organ is the
representation of a fiery serpent, the head and tail of carved work,
and the body of pistols winding round in the form of a snake; and on
the other an hydra, whose seven heads are artfully combined by links of
pistols.

The inner columns that compose the wilderness, round which you are
conducted by your guides, are,

1. Some arms taken at Bath in the year 1715, distinguished from all
others in the Tower, by having what is called dog locks; that is, a
kind of locks with a catch to prevent their going off at half-cock.

2. Bayonets and pistols put up in the form of half moons and fans, with
the imitation of a target in the center made of bayonet blades. These
bayonets, of which several other fans are composed, are of the first
invention, they having plug handles which go into the muzzle of the
gun, instead of over it, and thereby prevent the firing of the piece,
without shooting away the bayonet. These were invented at Bayonne in
Spain, and from that place take their name.

3. Brass blunderbusses for sea service, with capitols of pistols over
them. The waves of the sea are here represented in old fashioned
bayonets.

4. Bayonets and sword-bayonets, in the form of half moons and fans, and
set in carved scollop-shells. The sword-bayonet is made like the old
bayonet, with a plug handle, and differs from it only in being longer.

5. The rising sun irradiated with pistols set in a chequered frame of
marine hangers of a peculiar make, having brass handles, and a dog’s
head on their pommels.

6. Four beautiful twisted pillars formed of pistols up to the top,
which is about twenty-two feet high, and placed at right angles; with
the representation of a falling star on the cieling exactly in the
middle of them, being the center of this magnificent room. Into this
place opens the grand staircase door, for the admission of the royal
family, or any of the nobility, whose curiosity leads them to view
the armoury; opposite to which opens another door into the balcony
that affords a fine prospect of the parade, the Governor’s house, the
Surveyor General’s, the Storekeeper’s, and other general officers in
the Tower.

7. The form of a large pair of folding gates made of serjeant’s
halberts, of an antique make.

8. Horsemen’s carbines, hanging very artificially in furbeloes and
flounces.

9. Medusa’s head, vulgarly called the witch of Endor, within three
regular ellipses of pistols, with snakes. The features are finely
carved, and the whole figure contrived with the utmost art. This figure
terminates the north side.

10. Facing the east wall, as you turn round, is a grand figure of a
lofty organ, ten ranges high, in which are contained upwards of two
thousand pair of pistols.

11. On the south side, as you return, the first figure that attracts
attention is Jupiter riding in a fiery chariot drawn by eagles, as if
in the clouds, holding a thunderbolt in his left hand, and over his
head is a rainbow, this figure is finely carved, and decorated with
bayonets.

The figures on this side answer pretty nearly to those on the other,
and therefore need no farther description, till you come again to the
centre; where, on each side the door leading to the balcony, you see,

12. A fine representation in carved work, of the star and garter,
thistle, rose and crown, ornamented with pistols, _&c._ and very
elegantly enriched with birds, _&c._

13. The arms taken from Sir William Perkins, Sir John Friend, Charnock,
and others concerned in the assassination plot, in 1696; among which
they shew the very blunderbuss with which they intended to shoot King
William near Turnham Green, in his way to Hampton Court: also the
carbine with which Charnock undertook to shoot that Monarch, as he rode
a hunting.

14. Lastly, the Highlanders arms, taken in 1715, particularly the Earl
of Mar’s fine piece, exquisitely wrought, and inlaid with mother of
pearl: also a Highland broad sword, with which a Highlander struck
General Evans, and at one blow cut him through the hat, wig, and iron
skull cap; on which that General is said to have shot him dead; others
say he was taken prisoner, and generously forgiven for his bravery.
Here is also the sword of justice, with a sharp point, and the sword
of mercy, with a blunt point, carried before the Pretender on his
being proclaimed King of Scotland, in 1715. Here are likewise some of
the Highlanders pistols, the barrels and stocks being all iron; also
a Highlander’s Loughabor ax, with which it is said Col. Gardner was
killed at the battle of Preston Pans.

A discerning eye will discover a thousand peculiarities in the
disposition of so vast a variety of arms, which no description can
reach, and therefore it is fit that every one who has a taste for the
admirable combinations of art, should gratify it with the sight of the
noblest curiosities of this kind in the whole world.

_The Royal Train of Artillery._ Upon the ground floor under the small
armoury, is a large room of equal dimensions with that, supported by
twenty pillars, all hung round with implements of war. This room which
is twenty-four feet high, has a passage in the middle sixteen feet wide.

At the sight of such a variety of the most dreadful engines of
destruction, before whose thunder the most superb edifices, the noblest
works of art, and numbers of the human species, fall together in
one common undistinguished ruin, one cannot help wishing that these
horrible inventions had still lain, like a false conception, in the
womb of nature, never to have been ripened into birth. But when, on
the other hand, we consider, that with us they are not used to answer
the purposes of ambition; but for self defence and in the protection
of our just rights, our terror subsides, and we view these engines of
devastation with a kind of solemn complacency, as the means providence
has put into our hands for our preservation.

1. You are shewn two large pieces of cannon employed by Admiral Vernon
before Carthagena; each of which has a large scale driven out of their
muzzles by balls from the castle of Bocca Chica.

2. Two pieces of excellent workmanship, presented by the city of London
to the young Duke of Gloucester, son to Queen Anne, to assist him in
learning the art of war.

3. Four mortars in miniature, for throwing hand granadoes, invented by
Col. Brown. They are fired with a lock like a common gun, but have not
yet been introduced into practice.

4. Two fine brass cannon taken from the walls of Vigo in 1704, by the
late Lord Cobham. Their breeches represent lions couchant, with the
effigy of St. Barbara, to whom they were dedicated.

5. A petard for bursting open the gates of a city or castle.

6. A large train of fine brass battering cannon, 24 pounders.

7. Some cannon of a new invention from 6 to 24 pounders. Their superior
excellence consists, first, in their lightness, the 24 pounders not
weighing quite 1700 weight, whereas formerly they weighed 5000; the
rest are in proportion; and secondly, in the contrivance for leveling
them, which is by a screw, instead of beds and coins. This new method
is more expeditious, and saves two men to a gun, and is said to be the
invention of his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland.

8. Brass mortars of thirteen inches diameter, which throw a shell of
300 weight; with a number of smaller mortars, and shells in proportion.

9. A carcase, which they fill at sieges with pitch, tar, and other
combustibles to set towns on fire. It is thrown out of an eighteen inch
mortar, and will burn two hours where it happens to fall.

10. A Spanish mortar of twelve inches diameter, taken on board a ship
in the West Indies.

11. Six French pieces of cannon, six pounders, taken from the rebels at
the battle of Culloden, April 16, 1745.

12. A beautiful piece of ordnance, made for King Charles I. when Prince
of Wales. It is finely ornamented with emblematical devices, among
which is an eagle throwing a thunder bolt in the clouds.

13. A train of field-pieces, called the galloping train, carrying a
ball of a pound and half each.

14. A destroying engine, that throws thirty hand granadoes at once, and
is fired by a train.

15. A most curious brass cannon made for Prince Henry, the eldest son
of King James I. the ornamenting of which is said to have cost 200_l._

16. A piece with seven bores, for throwing so many balls at once, and
another with three, made as early as Henry the Eighth’s time.

17. The Drum-major’s chariot of state, with the kettle drums placed.
It is drawn by four white horses at the head of the train, when upon a
march.

18. Two French field-pieces, taken at the battle of Hochstadt in 1704.

19. An iron cannon of the first invention, being bars of iron hammered
together, and hooped from top to bottom with iron hoops, to prevent its
bursting. It has no carriage, but was to be moved from place to place
by means of six rings fixed to it at proper distances.

20. A very large mortar weighing upwards of 6600 weight, and throwing
a shell of 500 weight two miles. This mortar was fired so often at the
siege of Namur by King William, that the very touch hole is melted, for
want of giving it time to cool.

21. A fine twisted brass cannon twelve feet long made in Edward the
Sixth’s time, called Queen Elizabeth’s Pocket pistol; which the
warders, by way of joke, tell you she used to wear on her right side
when she rode a hunting.

22. Two brass cannon three bores each, carrying six pounders, taken by
the Duke of Marlborough at the glorious battle of Ramelies.

23. A mortar that throws nine shells at a time; out of which the
balloons were cast at the fire-works, for the last peace.

Besides those above enumerated, there were in the stove-room before the
present war, a vast number of new brass cannon; together with spunges,
ladles, rammers, handspikes, wadhooks, &c. with which the walls were
lined round; and under the cieling there hang on poles upwards of four
thousand harness for horses, besides men’s harness, drag-ropes, &c. And
besides the trophies of standards, colours, &c. taken from the enemy,
it is now adorned with the transparent pictures brought hither from the
fire-works played off at the conclusion of the last peace.

_The horse armoury_, is a plain brick building a little to the eastward
of the white tower; and is an edifice rather convenient than elegant,
where the spectator is entertained with a representation of those
kings and heroes of our own nation with whose gallant actions it is to
be supposed he is well acquainted; some of them equipped and sitting
on horseback, in the same bright and shining armour they were used
to wear when they performed those glorious actions that give them a
distinguished place in the British annals.

In ascending the staircase, just as you come to the landing-place, on
casting your eye into the room, you see the figure of a grenadier in
his acoutrements, as if upon duty, with his piece rested upon his arm;
which is so well done, that at the first glance you will be apt to
mistake it for real life.

When you enter the room, your conductor presents to your notice,

1. The figures of the horse and foot on your left-hand, supposed to be
drawn up in military order to attend the kings on the other side of the
house. These figures are as big as the life, and have been lately new
painted.

2. A large tilting lance of Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk, King
Henry the Eighth’s general in France; a nobleman who excelled at the
then fashionable diversion of tilting.

3. A complete suit of tilting armour, such as the kings, nobility and
gentlemen at arms used to wear; with the tilting lance, the rest for
the lance, and grand guard.

4. A complete suit of armour made for King Henry VIII. when he was but
eighteen years of age, rough from the hammer. It is at least six feet
high, and the joints in the hands, arms and thighs, knees and feet play
like the joints of a rattle snake, and are moved with all the facility
imaginable.

The method of learning the exercise of tilting, was upon wooden horses
set upon castors, which by the sway of the body could be moved every
way; so that by frequent practice, the rider could shift, parry,
strike, unhorse, and recover with surprizing dexterity. Some of the
horses in this armoury have been used for this purpose; and it is but
lately that the castors have been taken from their feet.

5. A little suit of armour made for King Charles II. when Prince of
Wales, and about seven or eight years of age; with a piece of armour
for his horse’s head; the whole most curiously wrought and inlaid with
silver.

6. Lord Courcy’s armour. This nobleman, as the warders tell you, was
grand champion of Ireland, and as a proof shew you the very sword he
took from the French champion; for which valiant action he and all his
successors have the honour to wear their hats in the King’s presence,
which privilege is still enjoyed by the Lord Kinsale, as head of that
antient and noble family.

7. Real coats of mail, called Brigandine Jackets. They consist of small
bits of steel, so artfully quilted one over another, as to resist the
point of a sword, and perhaps a musket ball, and yet are so flexible,
that the wearer might bend his body any way, as well as in his ordinary
clothes.

8. An Indian suit of armour, sent by the Great Mogul as a present to
King Charles II. This is a very great curiosity; it is made of iron
quills about two inches long, finely japanned and ranged in rows, one
row easily slipping over another: these are bound very strong together
with silk twist, and are used in that country as a defence against
darts and arrows.

9. A neat little suit of armour worn by a carved figure representing
Richard Duke of York, the youngest son of King Edward IV. who, with his
brother Edward V. were smothered in the Tower, by order of their uncle
and guardian, Richard III.

10. The armour of John of Gaunt Duke of Lancaster, who was the son of a
King, the father of a King, and the uncle of a King, but was never King
himself: and Dugdale observes, that more kings and sovereign princes
sprang from his loins, than from any King in Christendom. The armour
here shewn is seven feet high, and the sword and lance of an enormous
size.

11. The droll figure of Will Somers, who, as the warders tell you, was
King Henry the Eighth’s jester. They add, “He was an honest man of a
woman’s making—he had a handsome woman to his wife, who made him a
cuckold; and he wears his horns on his head, because they should not
wear holes in his pockets.——He would neither believe King, Queen,
nor any about the court, that he was a cuckold, till he put on his
spectacles to see, being a little dim sighted, as all cuckolds should
be:” in which antic manner he is here represented.

12. What your conductors call, a collar of torments, which say they,
“used formerly to be put about the womens necks that cuckolded their
husbands, or scolded at them when they came home late, but that custom
is left off now-a-days, to prevent quarrelling for collars, there not
being smiths enough to make them, as most married men are sure to want
at one time or other.”

You now come to the line of Kings, which your conductor begins by
reversing the order of chronology; so that in following them we must
place the last first.

1. His late Majesty King George I. in a complete suit of armour,
sitting with a truncheon in his hand on a white horse richly
caparisoned, having a fine Turky bridle gilt, with a globe, crescent
and star; velvet furniture laced with gold, and gold trappings.

2. King William III. dressed in the suit of armour worn by Edward the
Black Prince son to Edward III. at the glorious battle of Cressey.
He is mounted on a sorrel horse, whose furniture is green velvet
embroidered with silver, and holds in his right hand a flaming sword.

3. King Charles II. dressed in the armour worn by the champion of
England, at the coronation of his present Majesty. He sits with a
truncheon in his hand, on a fine horse richly caparisoned, with crimson
velvet laced with gold.

4. King Charles I. in a rich suit of his own armour gilt, and curiously
wrought, presented to him by the city of London when he was Prince
of Wales, and is the same that was laid on the coffin at the funeral
procession of the late great Duke of Marlborough, on which occasion a
collar of SS was added to it, and is now round it.

5. James I. who sits on horseback dressed in a complete suit of figured
armour, with a truncheon in his right hand.

6. King Edward VI. dressed in a curious suit of steel armour, whereon
are depicted in different compartments a great variety of scripture
histories. He sits like the rest on horseback, with a truncheon in his
hand.

7. King Henry VIII. in his own armour, which is of polished steel with
the foliages gilt or inlaid with gold. He holds a sword in his right
hand.

8. King Henry VII. who also holds a sword. He sits on horseback in a
complete suit of armour finely wrought, and washed with silver.

9. King Edward V. who with his brother Richard was smothered in the
Tower, and having been proclaimed King, but never crowned, a crown is
hung over his head. He holds a lance in his right hand, and is dressed
in a rich suit of armour.

10. King Edward IV. father to the two unhappy princes above mentioned,
is distinguished by a suit of bright armour studded. He holds a drawn
sword in his hand.

11. King Henry VI. who though crowned King of France at Paris, lost
that kingdom, and was at last murdered in the Tower by the Duke of
Gloucester, afterwards Richard III.

12. The victorious Henry V. who by his conquests in France caused
himself to be acknowledged regent, and presumptive heir to that kingdom.

13. Henry IV. the son of John of Gaunt.

14. King Edward III. John of Gaunt’s father, and father to Edward the
Black Prince, is represented here with a venerable beard, and in a suit
of plain bright armour, with two crowns on his sword, alluding to his
being crowned King both of France and England.

15. King Edward I. dressed in a very curious suit of gilt armour, and
in shoes of mail. He has a battle axe in his hand.

16. William the Conqueror the first in the line, though last shewn,
sits in a suit of plain armour.

17. Over the door where you go out of the armoury is a target on which
are engraved by a masterly hand, the figures as it should seem, of
Justice, Fortune, and Fortitude; and round the room the walls are every
where lined with various uncommon pieces of old armour, for horses
heads and breasts, targets, and many pieces that now want a name.

The other curiosities contained in the Tower, are in the Jewel office,
and the manner of coining money in the mint. There are here also the
office of ordnance, which has the government of all the above store
rooms, and the office of keeper of the records. For which see the
articles JEWEL OFFICE, MINT, Office of ORDNANCE, and RECORD OFFICE, and
for the church in the Tower, see _St._ PETER AD VINCULA.

The Tower is a place so considerable and so much frequented by all who
visit this metropolis, that it would have been unpardonable to have
omitted a view: this in the print is taken from the river, but exhibits
a mixture of old and new buildings which are neither remarkable for
their beauty nor grandeur.


TOWER COURT, a court of record held by prescription, at the king’s
arms on Great Tower Hill, by a steward appointed by the constable of
the Tower, by whom are tried actions of debt for any sum, damage and
trespass.

Here also the grand jury, try all persons taken up in the Tower
liberties for murders, felonies and other crimes, when if they are
found guilty they are committed to Newgate, to take their trials at the
Old Bailey.

And in short, in the same house the Coroners inquest sit for the Tower
liberties.


TOWER _dock_, near the Tower Wharf.


TOWER _Hill_, a very spacious area to the north, east and west of the
Tower ditch, divided into Great and Little Tower Hill. The west end
extending much farther to the north is called by the former name,
and the east end, in which is the victualling office, by the latter.
It must be confessed that Tower Hill has many handsome buildings,
particularly among the row of houses which bound it to the west; but
though this great area might be rendered extremely beautiful, it
is quite the reverse, in almost every other part besides that just
mentioned, we find it ill built, and the ground a mere dunghill;
particularly in Little Tower Hill, where we see either the backs of the
houses next this fine area, or mean edifices in ruins. But as the hill
is now improved and rendered more safe by placing strong wooden rails
on the outside of the ditch, it is to be hoped that the ground will
be completely levelled, and laid out to greater advantage, and that
some care will be taken to rebuild the houses that are falling down,
particularly as this is a place visited by all strangers.


TOWER HILL _passage_, Little Tower Hill.


TOWER LIBERTIES, these are not confined within the Tower wall; but
include both the Tower Hills, part of East Smithfield, Rosemary lane,
Wellclose square, and the Little Minories; and in Spitalfields, all the
streets, lanes and allies, built upon the artillery ground, formerly
belonging to the Tower, as Artillery street, French alley, Duke street,
Steward street, Gun street, Fort street, and the courts and alleys
within their compass.


TOWER ROYAL, a street near St. Thomas Apostle’s, so called from a large
fortified house or tower belonging to the kings of England, formerly at
the upper end of that street. _Maitland._


TOWER ROYAL _court_, Tower Royal.


TOWER ROYAL _lane_, Budge row.


TOWER _street_, 1. begins at Idle lane, and running eastward extends to
Tower Hill, it is a spacious street, pretty well built. 2. Hackney: 3.
Soho.


TOWER STREET WARD, takes its name from the principal street therein,
and is the first ward in the south-east part of the city. It is bounded
on the south by the river Thames, on the east by Tower Hill, and part
of Aldgate Ward; on the north, by Langbourn Ward, and on the west
by Billingsgate Ward. It extends from the Tower on the east, to the
middle of the way between Great Dice key, and Smart’s key on the west,
and from the west corner of Tower dock on the south to within 70 feet
of the north end of Rood lane. In which compass are contained Tower
street, a part of Thames street, Seething lane, Mark lane, Mincing
lane, Hart street, Idle lane, St. Dunstan’s hill, Harp lane, Water
lane, and Beer lane, with many others, and a considerable number of
courts and alleys.

The principal buildings in this ward, are the churches of St. Dunstan’s
and Alhallows Barking, the Custom house, Navy office, Trinity house and
Corn Exchange in Mark lane, which see under their several articles.
This ward is governed by an Alderman, twelve common council men, one of
whom is the Alderman’s deputy, thirteen wardmotemen, twelve scavengers,
thirteen constables, and a beadle. The jurymen returned by the wardmote
inquest, serve in the several courts at Guildhall in the month of May.


TOWN CLERK, or _Common Clerk_, an officer who keeps the original
charters of the city, the books, rolls, and other records, wherein
are registered the acts and proceedings of the city; so that he may
properly be stiled the city register; that he may take down any
extraordinary proceedings, he attends the Lord Mayor and Aldermen at
their courts. This is an office of great profit. The town-clerk and
common serjeant take place according to their seniority. _Maitland._


TOWN DITCH, the area behind Christ’s hospital, so called from part of
the ditch belonging to the city wall formerly passing through it.


TOWNSEND _lane_, 1. Hockley in the hole.† 2. Thames street.†


TOWNSEND _street_, Thames street.†


TOWNSEND’S _yard_, Queen street, in the Park Southwark.†


TOWTING, there are two villages of this name in Surry, situated near
each other, and distinguished by the epithets Upper and Lower. Upper
Towting lies in the road from Southwark to Epsom, about a mile and a
half to the westward of Stretham, and has an almshouse founded in 1709,
by the mother of Sir John Bateman Lord Mayor of London, for six poor
alms-women, to be nominated by the eldest heir of the family; and is
adorned with several fine seats belonging to the gentlemen and citizens
of London, particularly the house and gardens of the Bateman’s family.

Lower Towting is two miles S. W. of Wandsworth; and here the Lord Gray
and the Earl of Lindsey had their seats in the last century.


TRADE AND PLANTATION OFFICE, in the Treasury, St. James’s Park.
This office is under the government of eight Commissioners, whose
business is to examine the custom house accounts of all the goods and
merchandize exported and imported to and from the several ports of
the kingdom, as well as from foreign ports, in order to inform the
government of the advantages and disadvantages of the trade of this
nation, with other kingdoms and states, in regard to the balance of
trade. And also to encourage our plantations abroad by endeavouring to
promote their trade, by discovering and encouraging such branches as
are most conducive to their respective interests, as well as to that of
this kingdom.

Each of these Commissioners has a salary of 1000_l._ _per annum_.
Under them are two joint Secretaries who have 500_l._ a year each; a
deputy secretary, who has 200_l._ a year, a sollicitor and clerk of the
reports, enjoyed by the same person, who has 200_l._ a year; and seven
clerks, one of whom has 80_l._ another 70_l._ another 60_l._ another
50_l._ a year, and two others 40_l._ a year each.


TRAITOR’S _bridge_, over a part of the Thames which runs into Tower
ditch, and under the wall, near the middle of the wharf. See the
article TOWER.


TRANCE’S _lane_, Kent street, Southwark.†


TREASURER OF ST. PAUL’S, an officer who has the custody of every thing
of value belonging to that cathedral, for the faithful keeping of which
he is bound by oath to the dean and chapter. He has a sacrist for an
assistant, and has the third stall on the south side of the choir.
_Newc. Repert_.


TRIG _stairs_, Trig lane, Thames street, near Paul’s wharf.†


TRIG _lane_, by Lambert hill, Thames street.†

[Illustration:
    _The Treasury & Horse Guards._]


TREASURY, a stone building fronting the parade in St. James’s Park.
The whole front is rustic; it consists of three stories, of which the
lowermost is of the basement kind, with small windows, though they
are contained in large arches; this story has the Tuscan proportion,
and the second the Doric, with arched windows of a good size; but
what is very singular, the upper part of this story is adorned with
the triglyphs and metopes of the Doric freeze, though this range of
ornament is supported by neither columns nor pilasters. Over this story
is a range of Ionic columns in the centre, supporting a pediment. Upon
the whole the Treasury must be allowed to be a building composed of
very beautiful parts, but it were to be wished they were fewer and
larger, as there is a sufficient distance to view it.

This edifice, has on the inside a court surrounded with buildings, and
here is not only the Treasury, but the office of trade and plantations.

The Treasury is under the government of five Lords Commissioners, one
of whom is called first Lord of the Treasury, and has a salary of 4000
_l._ _per annum_, and the rest have 1600_l._ a year each. Under these are
two joint Secretaries, four chief clerks, and sixteen other clerks: two
clerks of the revenue who have 100_l._ a year each, two sollicitors who
have 500_l._ a year each, and an assistant, an office keeper who has 300
_l._ a year, and finds coals and candles for the office, four messengers
of the Exchequer, a messenger of the chamber, and other servants. See
the article EXCHEQUER.


TRINITY _court_, 1. Aldersgate street.☐ 2. Little Minories.☐ 3.
Little Trinity lane, Bow lane.☐


TRINITY HALL, in Aldersgate street, near the corner of Little Britain.
Here formerly stood a priory belonging to the abbey of Cluny in
France, which being suppressed by King Henry V. his Majesty granted
its revenues to the parishioners of St. Botolph, on condition of their
founding in that church a fraternity dedicated to the Holy Trinity.
Part of the building is still existing and let out to a coffee-house;
but the upper part, says _Maitland_, retains somewhat of the
appearance of its original use, it serving for a place of worship to a
congregation of Nonjurors. Here also the parishioners meet in vestry on
particular occasions.


TRINITY HOSPITAL, at Mile-end, is a very noble, and yet unexpensive
edifice, rendered beautiful by its situation, and the agreeable manner
in which it is laid out. It consists of two wings and a center,
wherein is the chapel, which rises considerably higher than the other
buildings, and has an ascent to it by a handsome flight of steps
secured by iron rails; this chapel has large windows, and is adorned
with a pediment; behind it rises a turret, ornamented with a clock,
and crowned with a fane. On each side of the chapel, are two sets of
apartments exactly resembling the wings.

The wings are low but neat buildings, with an ascent of seven steps to
each pair of doors, secured by brick walls capped with stone, and there
are six of these ascents to each wing, besides two in the front, one
on each side the chapel. Between each of these ascents is a pump fixed
close to the wall.

It is remarkable that all these ascents lead to the upper story; there
are however rooms below, but these are under ground and the windows
upon a level with a broad stone pavement, that surrounds the area next
the houses. In the centre of each wing is a handsome pediment, adorned
with the company’s arms, with the representation of ropes, anchors, and
sea weeds, in open work, spread over the face of the pediments, and the
area within consists of handsome grass-plats, divided by gravel-walks,
kept in excellent order, leading down the middle, and across to the
centre of the area, where is a statue in stone of Mr. Robert Sandes
well executed. He has a bale of goods placed behind; he stands with his
right-foot upon another bale, and near his left-foot is a small globe,
and anchor. On the pedestal is the following inscription:

To the memory of CAPTAIN ROBERT SANDES, an elder brother, and
deputy-master of the corporation of Trinity House, who dy’d in 1701,
and bequeath’d to the poor thereof one hundred pounds, also the
reversion (after two lives) of a freehold estate in the county of
Lincoln of 147_l._ a year, now in their possession. This statue was
erected by the corporation A. D. 1746.

The end of each wing next the road has an empty niche, and over it is a
very small pediment, on each side which is placed a small ship.

The ground on which this hospital stands was given to the corporation
of the Trinity house by capt. Henry Mudd, an elder brother, and the
above beautiful and commodious building erected by the company in the
year 1695, for the reception of twenty-eight masters of ships, or their
widows, each of whom receives 16_s._ per month, 20_s._ a year for coals,
and a gown every second year.


TRINITY HOUSE, a society founded in the year 1515, by Sir Thomas Spert,
Knt. commander of the great ship Henry Grace de Dieu, and comptroller
of the navy to Henry VIII. for the regulation of seamen, and the
convenience of ships and mariners on our coast, and incorporated by
the above mentioned Prince who confirmed to them not only the ancient
rights and privileges of the company of mariners of England; but their
several possessions at Deptford; which together with the grants of
Queen Elizabeth and King Charles II. were also confirmed by letters
patent of the first of James II. in 1685, by the name of _The master,
wardens and assistants of the guild or fraternity of the most glorious
and undivided Trinity, and of St. Clement in the parish of Deptford
Strond in the county of Kent_.

This corporation is governed by a master, four wardens, eight
assistants, and eighteen elder brethren; but the inferior members of
the fraternity, named younger brethren, are of an unlimited number, for
every master, or mate, expert in navigation may be admitted as such;
and these serve as a continual nursery to supply the vacancies among
the elder brethren when removed by death, or otherwise.

The master, wardens, assistants, and elder brethren are by charter
invested with the following powers:

1. That of examining the mathematical children of Christ’s hospital.

2. The examination of the masters of his Majesty’s ships; the
appointing pilots to conduct ships in and out of the river Thames; and
the amercing all such as shall presume to act as master of a ship of
war or pilot, without their approbation, in a pecuniary mulct of 20_s._

3. The settling the several rates of pilotage and erecting
light-houses, and other sea marks upon the several coasts of the
kingdom, for the security of navigation; to which light-houses all
ships pay one half-penny a tun.

4. The granting licences to poor seamen, not free of the city, to row
on the river Thames for their support, in the intervals of sea service,
or when past going to sea.

5. The preventing of aliens from serving on board English ships,
without their licence, upon the penalty of 5_l._ for each offence.

6. The punishing of seamen for desertion, or mutiny, in the merchants
service.

7. The hearing and determining the complaints of officers and seamen
in the merchants service; but subject to an appeal to the Lords of the
Admiralty, or the Judge of the court of Admiralty.

To this company belongs the ballast office, for clearing and deepning
the river Thames, by taking from thence a sufficient quantity of
ballast, for the supply of all ships that sail out of that river;
in which service sixty barges with two men in each, are constantly
employed, and all ships that take in ballast pay them 1_s._ a ton, for
which it is brought to the ships sides.

In consideration of the great increase of the poor of this fraternity,
they are by their charter impowered to purchase in mortmain lands,
tenements, &c. to the amount of 500_l._ _per annum_; and also to receive
charitable benefactions of well disposed persons, to the like amount of
500_l._ _per annum_, clear of reprizes.

There are annually relieved by this company about 3000 poor seamen,
their widows, and orphans, at the expence of about 6000_l._

They commonly meet to chuse their master at their house at Deptford;
but are not obliged to do it there. See the article DEPTFORD.

Their meetings are generally on Wednesdays and Saturdays, at their
house in Water lane, Thames street; but their courts are not constantly
fixed to a set time.

Their house in Water lane has been twice burnt down, once at the fire
of London, and the last time in the year 1718. Among the curiosities
preserved in the hall of this building is a flag taken from the
Spaniards, by the brave Sir Francis Drake, whose picture is also there:
a large and exact model of a ship entirely rigged, and two large
globes; and in the parlour are five large drawings curiously performed
by the pen, of several engagements at sea in the reign of King Charles
II. _Maitland._


TRINITY _lane_, Garlick hill, Thames street.☐


TRINITY _Minories_, a curasy situated in the Little Minories, in
Portsoken-ward, where anciently stood an abbey of nuns of the order of
St. Clare, called the Minoresses, founded by Edmund Earl of Lancaster,
brother to King Edward I. in the year 1293, but being suppressed in the
year 1539, a number of houses were erected in its room, and a small
church was built for the inhabitants, and dedicated to the Trinity,
whence it received its present appellation, the additional epithet of
Minories being added from the above Monastery.

The present church is a small brick edifice with a low tower crowned
with a turret.

The patronage has been all along in the crown: but the income of the
curate is said to be so small as to amount to no more than 25_l._ _per
annum_, besides surplice fees.


TRINITY _the Less_, a church formerly seated at the north-east corner
of Little Trinity lane, where at present a German chapel, denominated
the Swedish church, is situated; it received the epithet of Less, to
distinguish it from the Trinity priory at Aldgate: but this church
suffering the fate of the other public buildings, at the fire of London
in 1666, and not being rebuilt, the parish was by act of parliament
united to the church of St. Michael’s Queenhithe.


TRINITY PRIORY, on the south side within Aldgate, was founded by Queen
Matilda, daughter to Malcolm King of Scotland, wife to Henry I. in the
year 1108, in the place where Siredus had begun to erect a church in
honour of the holy cross and St. Mary Magdalen: she endowed it with the
port of Aldgate, the customs belonging to it, and the sum of 25_l._

This priory was built on a piece of ground upwards of three hundred
feet long, in the parish of St. Catharine, near a parochial chapel
dedicated to St. Michael, which stood where are now the row of
houses by the pump, fronting the gate; and soon obtained the name of
Christ church; in a short time it grew rich in lands and ornaments,
and surpassed all the priories in the city of London and county of
Middlesex, for its church, got into its possession the parishes
belonging to the neighbouring churches of St. Mary Magdalen, St.
Michael, and St. Catharine, and the prior was frequently an Alderman.
This priory was dissolved by King Henry VIII. in the year 1531, and of
nine well-tuned bells that belonged to the conventual church, the four
largest are now in the steeple of Stepney church, and the other five at
St. Stephen’s Coleman street. _Maitland._


TRINITY _stairs_, Broad street, Ratcliff.☐


TRINITY _street_, Rotherhith.☐


TRINITY _yard_, Broad street, Ratcliff.☐


TRIPP’S _alley_, Whitechapel.☐


TROTTER _alley_, Barnaby street, Southwark.


TROTTERBONE _alley_. Duke street.


TRUMBALL’S _yard_, Queen street, Windmill street.†


TRUMP _alley_, Cheapside.


TRUMP _street_, King street.


TRUMPET _yard_, Whitechapel.*


TRYANCE _court_, Red lion street, Spitalfields.


TRYPE _yard_, 1. Catharine Wheel alley: 2. Dunning’s alley, Bishopsgate
street without: 3. Petticoat lane.


TUDOR _street_, Bridewell Precinct.


TUFTON _street_, Lumley street, Westminster.


TUKE’S _court_, Chancery lane.†


TUN, in Cornhill, a prison built with stone by Henry Wallis, Mayor
of London in the year 1282, as a prison for night-walkers, and other
suspicious persons, and called the Tun from its resembling a tun
standing upon one end. This prison being, in 1401, made a cistern for
water conveyed by leaden pipes from Tyburn; was thence called the
conduit. It had at the same time a strong prison made of timber placed
upon it, which was called the cage; this prison had a pair of stocks,
and was for the punishment of night-walkers. On the top of the cage was
placed a pillory for the punishment of bakers offending in the assize
of bread; for millers stealing of corn at the mill; for bawds, scolds,
and persons guilty of perjury; the last mentioned persons were usually
brought on horseback from Newgate with paper mitres on their heads, and
with their faces to the horses tails, and having stood in this pillory,
were in the same manner conducted back to Newgate.


TUN _alley_, Love lane, Wood street.*


TURK’S HEAD _court_, Golden lane, Barbican.*


TURK’S HEAD _yard_, Turnmill street, Cowcross.*


TURKS ROW, Chelsea.


TURKY or LEVANT COMPANY, a body of merchants incorporated by Queen
Elizabeth in the year 1579, when that Princess granted them many great
privileges, which have been confirmed by several succeeding Princes.

The trade of this company originally extended no farther than to
Venice; but discovering there oriental gems, and other valuable
commodities brought from the east, they extended their trade to Turky;
and tho’ the English East Company, which was afterwards incorporated,
deprived them of the trade of jewels and spices, they have almost ever
since carried on a trade to the Levant with success, though it is now
upon the decline. _Maitland._

In the Turky trade there was always a balance against us; and yet it
was esteemed of no disservice to the nation, as that company imported
raw silk, cotton, and several other articles that were purchased with
our cloth and other woollen goods; but the French have supplanted us by
making a slight sort of cloth, that appears as fine as ours, and being
made thinner and lighter, is not only fitter for warm climates; but can
be afforded cheaper.

In the year 1754, an act was passed, by which it was ordered that every
subject of Great Britain, who desired admission into the Turky company,
should be admitted within thirty days after such request, and enjoy
all the privileges of the company, on their paying 20_l._ for such
admission.

The affairs of this company are managed by a Governor, deputy governor
and a court of assistants, consisting of eighteen members, annually
chosen in the month of February; who hold a court monthly, or as
occasion requires, for the management of the company’s affairs; as
appointing Consuls, Vice-consuls, factors, _&c._ to the places where
their factories are kept; as at Smyrna, Aleppo, Constantinople, Cyprus,
_&c._ who are answerable to the company for what they do or act under
them.


TURN-ABOUT _alley_, Windmill Hill row.


TURN-AGAIN _lane_, 1. Snow Hill: 2. Thomas street.


TURNBULL _street_, Cowcross, this street was anciently denominated
TURNMILL STREET, from the mills erected in it, turned by a stream of
water from Hampstead and Highgate; which being at present seemingly
dried up, some writers have represented it as lost; but that stream is
brought to the suburbs of London in two large wooden pipes, each of a
seven inch bore. _Maitland._


TURNBULL _yard_, White’s alley, Longditch.


TURNERS, a society incorporated by letters patent granted by King James
I. in the year 1604; by the name of _The master, wardens and commonalty
of the art or mystery de lez Turners of London_.

This company is governed by a master, two wardens, and twenty-four
assistants; with a livery of 144 members, who, upon their admission,
pay a fine of 8_l._ They have a convenient hall on College hill, Thames
street.


TURNER’S _alley_, Little Eastcheap.†


TURNER’S _court_, St. Martin’s lane.†


TURNER’S _street_, Derby street.†


TURNMILL _street_, the ancient name of the street now corruptly called
Turnbull street. See TURNBULL _street_.


TURNPIKE _passage_, King street.


TURN-STILE, 1. Drury lane: 2. Holbourn.


TURNWHEEL _lane_, Cannon street, by Wallbrook.


TURRET _yard_, Little sanctuary, Westminster.


TURNVILLE _street_, Shoreditch Fields.


TUTTLE _court_, Barnaby street, Southwark.


TWEED _street_, Berwick street, Old Soho.


TWEEZER’S _alley_, Milford lane, in the Strand.


TWELVE BELL _court_, Bow church-yard, Cheapside.*


TWICKENHAM, a pleasant village in Middlesex situated on the Thames
between Teddington and Isleworth, and between two brooks that here fall
into that river. The church, which is a modern edifice, rebuilt by
the contribution of the inhabitants, is a fine Doric structure. Here
is a charity school for fifty boys, who are cloathed and taught: And
this delightful village is adorned with the seats of several persons
of distinction, particularly on the bank of the river. To begin at the
upper end; there is an elegant Gothic seat called Strawberry Hill,
belonging to the Honorable Mr. Walpole; then a beautiful house, late
the Earl of Radnor’s, now in the possession of Mr. Hindley. The next
of considerable note is Sir William Stanhope’s, formerly the residence
of our most celebrated poet Mr. Alexander Pope; then Mrs. Backwell’s;
and the last on this beautiful bank is doctor Battie’s, at present in
the possession of Mr. Paulet. All these houses, besides several others
on this delightful bank, enjoy a most pleasing prospect both up and
down the river, perpetually enlivened with the west country navigation,
and other moving pictures on the surface of this enchanting river.
Then below the church, you have the fine seat of Mr. Whitchurch, that
of the Earl of Strafford, Mrs. Pitt, and at the entrance into the
meadows, the elegant structure called Marble Hall, belonging to the
Countess of Suffolk. Still further down the stream you have the small
but very pretty house of Mr. Barlow; the larger and more grand one
of Mr. Cambridge; and the sweet retirement called Twickenham Park,
the residence of the Countess of Montrath. This brings you down to
Isleworth, which from the entrance into the meadows at Lady Suffolk’s,
is about a mile and a half on the bank of the river, opposite to
Ham-walks and Richmond-hill, and is one of the most beautiful walks in
England.


TWIG’S _rents_, Blue Anchor alley.†


TWISTERS _alley_, Whitecross street.


TWO BREWER’S _yard_, in the Curtain, Hog lane.*


TWO LEG _alley_, Old Bethlem.*


TWO SWAN _yard_, Bishopsgate street.*


TWYFORD’S _alley_, Petty France, Westminster.†


TYBURN, anciently a village situated on the eastern bank of the rivulet
Tyburn, from whence it took its name, and at the east end of the Lord
Mayor’s banquetting house bridge, in the neighbourhood of which the
city has nine conduits, that were first erected about the year 1238,
for supplying the city with water; but it having for many years been
better supplied from the New River, the citizens in the year 1703, let
the water of those conduits on a lease of forty-three years, for the
sum of 700_l._ _per annum_.

At the north-east corner of Tyburn Bridge stood the Lord Mayor’s
banqueting house, to which it was usual for his Lordship to repair
with the Aldermen, accompanied by their ladies in waggons, to view the
city conduits, after which they had an entertainment at the banqueting
house. This edifice under which were two cisterns, for the reception of
the water from the neighbouring conduits, having been for many years,
neglected, was taken down in the year 1737, and Tyburn is now only
known by the gallows, erected where that village stood, and at present
alone bears the name of Tyburn. _Maitland._


TYBURN _lane_, Hyde Park road.


TYBURN _road_, Oxford street.


TYGER _court_, Whitecross street, Cripplegate.*


TYER’S _gate_, Barnaby street, Southwark.†


TYLER’S _street_, King’s street, Golden Square.†


TYSON’S _street_, Shoreditch Fields.†


          V.


VALIANT SOLDIER _alley_, Barnaby street.*


VAUXHALL, a hamlet in the parish of Lambeth, particularly famous for
the pleasantness of the gardens, that have been many years converted
into a place of genteel entertainment, during the spring and summer
seasons. They were the first of the kind perhaps in the world: in the
midst of the garden is a superb orchestre containing a fine organ
and a band of music with some of the best voices, and the seats or
boxes are disposed to the best advantage with respect to hearing the
music. In most of the boxes are pictures painted from the designs of
Mr. Hayman, on subjects admirably adapted to the place. But there
are in the grand pavilion four pictures of his own hand from the
historical plays of Shakespear that are universally admired for the
design, colouring and expression. The trees are scattered here with
a pleasing confusion. At some distance are several noble vistas of
very tall trees, where the spaces between each are filled up with
neat hedges, and on the inside are planted flowers and sweet smelling
shrubs. Some of these vistas terminate in a view of ruins, and others
in a prospect of the adjacent country, and some are adorned with the
painted representation of triumphal arches. There are here also several
statues, and in particular a good one in marble by Mr. Roubiliac of
the late Mr. Handell playing on a lyre in the character of Orpheus.
As Ranelagh has its rotunda, so here also is a rotund and ball room,
finely illuminated, in which is an orchestre with an organ, where
if the evening proves rainy the company may be safely sheltered and
entertained. When it grows dark the garden near the orchestre is
illuminated, almost in an instant, with about 1500 glass lamps, which
glitter among the trees, and render it exceeding light and brilliant:
and soon after a very extraordinary piece of machinery has of late
been exhibited, on the inside of one of the hedges near the entrance
into the vistas: by removing a curtain is shewn a very fine landscape
illuminated by concealed light; in which the principal objects that
strike the eyes are the cascade or waterfall, and a miller’s house. The
exact appearance of water is seen flowing down a declivity, and turning
the wheel of the mill: it rises up in foam at the bottom, and then
glides away. This moving picture, attended with the noise of the water,
has a very pleasing and surprizing effect both on the eye and ear; but
we cannot help observing, with respect to this piece, that however well
it is executed, yet peoples being obliged to wait till the curtain
is drawn; and after beholding it for a few minutes, having it again
suddenly concealed from the view, when the exhibition is ended for that
night, has too much the air of a raree show. If it could have been
contrived to make its appearance gradually, with the rising of the moon
in the same picture, which might seem to enlighten the prospect, and at
length by degrees to become obscured by the passing of that luminary
behind a cloud, the effect would perhaps have been much more agreeable.
Every thing is provided in these gardens in the most elegant manner for
the company who chuse to sup.

[Illustration:
    _S. Wale delin._      _E. Rooker sc._
    _View at the Entrance into Vaux Hall._]


VAUXHALL _court_, Little Chapel street.


VAUXHALL _stairs_, Vauxhall.


VAUXHALL STAIRS _lane_, leading from the above stairs toward the garden.


VAUXHALL _walk_, Bull street, Lambeth.


_St._ VEDAST’S, situated on the east side of Foster lane, in the Ward
of Farringdon within. A church has stood for many centuries in the
place where this is situated; but not under the same tutelage: the
first building was dedicated to St. Foster, and from that the lane in
which it stands was called Foster lane: but afterwards the church being
rebuilt, was put under the patronage of St. Vedast, Bishop of Arras, in
France, who died in the year 550.

This church was so far destroyed by the fire of London in 1666, that
nothing was left standing but the steeple and the walls; but these
being repaired, continued till the year 1694, when they were taken
down, and the present edifice was finished in 1697. It is built
entirely of stone, and the body is sixty-nine feet in length, fifty-one
broad, and thirty-six feet high. It is well enlightened by a range of
windows placed so high that the doors open under them. The tower is
plain, and the spire which is short rises from a double base. _English
architecture._

The author of _The Critical Review of the public buildings_, mentioning
this steeple says, “It is not a glaring pile that strikes the eye at
the first view with an idea of grandeur and magnificence; but then
the beautiful pyramid it forms, and the just and well proportioned
simplicity of all its parts, satisfy the mind so effectually, that
nothing seems to be wanting, and nothing can be spared.”

The patronage of this church was anciently in the prior and convent of
Canterbury, till coming to the archbishop of that see in the year 1352
it has been in him and his successors ever since, and is one of the
thirteen peculiars in the city belonging to the archiepiscopal see. To
this church the parish of St. Michael Quern is united, and the rector
receives 160_l._ a year in lieu of tithes. _Maitland._


VERE _street_, 1. Beer street: 2. Brook’s street, Ratcliff: 3.
Clare Market: 4. Oxford street. Thus named from the Lady of the late
Earl of Oxford.


VICTUALLING OFFICE, on the upper part of Little Tower Hill near the
end of King street; is separated from Tower Hill by a wall and gates,
and contains some houses for the officers, with store rooms, slaughter
houses, a brewhouse, for salting, barrelling, &c. of provisions.

This office is under the direction of seven commissioners, each of
whom has his separate department, as in the Navy Office, and a salary
of 400_l._ _per annum_, as the first commissioner and comptroller, the
commissioner of the bakehouse, another of the cutting house, another of
the brewhouse; another of the accounts; another of the cooperage; and
another who is hoytaker.

Under these commissioners is a secretary who has 200_l._ _per annum_,
and five clerks; a cash accomptant who has 120_l._ _per annum_, and four
clerks, besides an extra-clerk; an accomptant for stores, who has 100
_l._ _per annum_, and five clerks, besides an extra-clerk; the clerk of
the bakehouse and master baker, who has 130_l._ a year, and two clerks,
besides an extra-clerk, a clerk of the cutting house who has 110_l._ a
year, a clerk and extra-clerk. Besides these there are a storekeeper of
the brewhouse, who has 60_l._ a year; a master cooper; a muster master
of the workmen; a master butcher; a surveyor of oxen and hogs; clerks
to keep charge on pursers, a clerk for stating a purser’s accounts, a
short allowance clerk, and a clerk to bring up accounts of stores in
arrears, most of these have clerks under them: and there are also a few
other officers and servants.


VIGO _lane_, 1. Burlington Gardens: 2. Swallow street.


VILLAR’S _court_, 1. Huggen lane: 2. St. James’s street.


VILLAR’S _street_, in the Strand, so called from its being built on the
ground where the house of Villars Duke of Buckingham formerly stood.
See YORK BUILDINGS.


VINCENT’S _court_, Silver street.†


VINE _court_, 1. Bishopsgate street without.* 2. Brook’s street.*
3. Chequer alley.* 4. Golden lane.* 5. Gravel lane.* 6. Harp alley,
Shoe lane.* 7. Lamb street, Spitalfields.* 8. Moor lane.* 9. Narrow
street, Limehouse.* 10. Onslow street, Vine street.* 11. Shoemaker row,
Aldgate.* 12. Three Crane lane, Thames street.* 13. Vine street, in the
Minories.* 14. Vine yard, Horsely down lane.* 15. Vineyard, St. Olave’s
street.* 16. Whitechapel.*


VINE _street_, 1. Fore street, Limehouse.* 2. St. Giles’s.* 3. Hatton
Wall.* 4. Lamb street.* 5. Maiden lane, Deadman’s place.* 6. Millbank.*
7. in the Minories.* 8. Narrow Wall, Lambeth.* 9. Chandois street.* 10.
Warwick street.


VINE _yard_, 1. Old Horselydown lane.* 2. Pickax street, Aldersgate
street.* 3. Ratcliff.* 4. Redcross street.* 5. Tooley street,
Southwark.*


VINEGAR _yard_, 1. Barnaby street, Southwark: 2. Blue Anchor, alley:
3. Bowl alley, St. Giles’s: 4. Dirty lane, Blackman street, Southwark:
5. Drury lane: 6. George street, in the Mint: 7. St. John’s lane,
Smithfield: 8. Sun yard, Nightingale lane.


VINTNER _alley_, Thames street.


VINTNERS, one of the twelve principal companies, were anciently
denominated _Merchant wine tunners of Gascoyne_, and were of two sorts,
the _Veneatrii_, who imported the wine, and the _Tabernarii_ who sold
it by retail, either kept taverns or wine cellars. They were however
incorporated by letters patent granted by King Henry VI. in the year
1437, by the name of the master, wardens, freemen and commonalty of the
mystery of Vintners of the city of London; but without the power of
making by-laws.

They are governed by a master, three wardens, twenty-eight assistants,
with a livery of 194 members, who, upon their admission, pay a fine
of 31_l._ 13_s._ 4_d._ They are possessed of a very considerable estate,
out of which is paid to charitable uses about 600_l._ a year, and have
a handsome hall in Thames street, where was formelry the house of Sir
John Stody, who gave it the company: it was called in antient records
the place of Stody, or the manor of the Vintry.

The buildings enclose a square court, and in the north front next the
street is a large and handsome gate, with columns wreathed with grapes
and supporting a Bacchus on three tons. Behind the hall is a garden
through which is a passage to the Thames.


VINTNERS ALMSHOUSE, at Mile-end, was founded by the company of
Vintners, for the use of twelve widows of deceased members, each of
whom receives 3_s._ a week, and every year a chaldron of coals, and
about 40_s._ given at certain times. _Maitland._


VINTRY WARD, takes its name from the Vintry, situated where the
Vintners hall now stands, and where the antient vintners or wine
merchants, who lived on the banks of the Thames, landed their wines,
which they were obliged to sell in forty days, till Edward I. granted
them longer time, and certain privileges. This ward is bounded on the
north by Cordwainers wards; on the east, by Walbrook and Dowgate wards;
on the south by the Thames, and on the west by Queenhithe ward. The
principal streets are a part of Thames street, from Little Elbow lane
in the east, to Townsend lane, in the west; a part of Queen street,
Great St. Thomas Apostles, Garlick hill, Great and Little Elbow lane,
_&c._ and the most remarkable buildings are the parish churches of
St. Michael’s Royal, St. Martin’s Vintry, and St. James Garlickhithe;
Vintners hall, Cutlers hall, Plumbers hall, and Fruiterers hall.

The government of this ward is by an alderman, and nine common
councilmen, under whom are four scavengers, fourteen wardmote inquest
men, and a beadle. The jurymen returned by the wardmote inquest for
this ward are to serve in the several courts held in Guildhall in the
month of April. _Stow._ _Maitland._


VIRGINIA _court_, 1. Artichoke lane: 2. Butcher Row, East Smithfield.


VIRGINIA PLANTERS _hill_, Upper Shadwell.


VIRGINIA _row_, 1. Greyhound lane, Limehouse: 2. Shoreditch.


VIRGINIA _street_, Ratcliff Highway.


UNDERWOOD’S ALMSHOUSE, was at first erected at the west end of the
rectory house of St. Botolph’s Bishopsgate, by one Mr. Underwood, for
the accommodation of sixteen poor old women; but on the rebuilding of
Petty France, when it changed its name to that of Broad street, _&c._
this almshouse, with that of Alleyn’s adjoining, were in the year 1730,
forced to make way for the new passage leading into Bishopsgate street;
and a new building was erected in Lamb Alley, in the same parish, for
these poor women, each of whom is allowed 2_s._ 6_d._ per month.


UNICORN _alley_, 1. Blackman street, Southwark.* 2. Fore street,
Cripplegate.* 3. Holiwell street.* 4. Kent street, Southwark.* 5. in
the Minories.* 6. Wheeler street.*


UNICORN _court_, 1. in the Haymarket.* 2. Kent street.* 3. Redcross
street.*


UNICORN _yard_, 1. Blackman street Southwark.* 2. Butcher Row, East
Smithfield.* 3. St. Olave’s street, Southwark.* 4. Old street,
Horselydown.* 5. Tooly street, Southwark.*


UNION _bridge_, Old Horselydown, Southwark.


UNION _court_, 1. a well built court in Broad street, London Wall,
extending into Wormwood street: 2. Scroop’s court, Holbourn: 3.
Throgmorton street, Lothbury.


UNION FIRE OFFICE, is a very handsome building, erected for that
purpose in Maiden lane, near Cheapside, where goods and merchandize,
but not houses, are insured from loss by fire, by a mutual contribution.

This office, like that of the Hand-in-Hand Fire Office, was erected
by a considerable number of persons, who mutually agreeing to insure
one another’s goods and merchandize from loss by fire by an amicable
contribution, entered into a deed of settlement for that purpose, on
the 16th of February, 1714–15, and had it inrolled in chancery on
the 3d of July following, and this deed being signed by all persons
desirous of becoming members, they are thereby admitted to an equal
share in the profit and loss, in proportion to their respective
policies.

This office insures for all merchants, traders, housekeepers, and
others in the cities of London and Westminster and within ten miles
round, merchandize, goods, wares, utensils in trade, houshold
furniture, and wearing apparel; except plate, pictures, glass and china
ware not in trade; except also ready money, jewels, books of account,
tallies, writings, barns, ricks and stacks of corn, hay, straw and
horses. The term of insurance to be seven years, or less if desired.

_The terms and methods of insurance are as follows_

I. For the policy and mark are paid 8_s._ 6_d._ over and above all other
expences.

II. Every person designing to insure, shall before surveying the
goods, pay 10_s._ earnest money, to go towards the charge of insuring,
if agreed to, and the policy be taken up within three months after,
otherwise the said 10_s._ is sunk to the society: but if the directors
do not agree to such insurance, the earnest money to be returned.
Also old policies directed to be renewed, and not taken away within
three months are also to be cancelled, and the charge of the policies
and stamps of such renewals deducted out of the deposit-money of such
insurers.

III. For every 100_l._ insured on goods inclosed within brick or stone,
2_s._ premium, and 10_s._ deposit; and on goods not so inclosed, 3_s._
premium, and 15_s._ deposit. And so in proportion within part brick part
timber.

IV. For insurances deemed hazardous, as to situation, or kind of goods,
each 100_l._ inclosed in brick or stone, 4_s._ premium, and 1_l._
deposit; in timber, 6_s._ premium, and 1_l._ 10_s._ deposit. Hazardous
Insurances both by situation and kind of goods, if inclosed in brick
or stone, 6_s._ premium, and 1_l._ 10_s._ deposit; in timber 9_s._
premium, and 2_l._ 5_s._ deposit. And so in proportion within part
brick part timber.

V. Those who insure above 1000_l._ not exceeding 2000_l._ in one
policy, to pay double the premium that others do, but the same deposit;
and from 2000_l._ to 3000_l._ on the following terms, _viz._ For every
100 _l._ insured on goods inclosed in brick or stone, 6_s._ premium and
10_s._ deposit, and on goods not so inclosed, 9_s._ premium, and 15_s._
deposit. Insurances deemed hazardous, as to situation or kind of goods,
each 100_l._ inclosed in brick or stone, 12_s._ premium, and 1_l._
deposit; in timber 18_s._ premium, and 1_l._ 10_s._ deposit. Hazardous
insurances, both by situation and kind of goods, if inclosed in brick
or stone, 18_s._ premium, and 1_l._ 10_s._ deposit; in timber 1_l._
7_s._ premium, and 2_l._ 5_s._ deposit; and so in proportion within
part brick part timber. Since the 15th of November 1738, the society
have enlarged their insurances to 4000_l._ on the following terms,
_viz._ For every 100_l._ insured on goods inclosed in brick or stone,
6_s._ premium, and 10_s._ deposit; and on goods not so inclosed, 9_s._
premium, and 15_s._ deposit; and the hazardous insurances in the same
proportion as the 3000_l._ insurances; and so in proportion within part
brick part timber, and since to 5000_l._

VI. If more than twenty pounds weight of gunpowder is kept on the
premises insur’d, the policy is to be void.

VII. All insurances beyond the bills of mortality pay 3_s._ to the
surveyor for his charges, _&c._

VIII. Every member to have a policy under the hands and seals of three
of the trustees, and the society’s mark (being a double Hand-in-Hand)
affix’d upon his house, _&c._ The insurance to be good from the time
the charge is paid, and the deed of settlement subscribed by the
person insuring. The policy, on expiration (after accounting for the
deposit-money and mean profits) to be returned to the Office, as also
the mark.

IX. So much of the deposit-money is to be returned at the expiration
of the policy, as has not been applied to the making good of losses,
and the payment of necessary charges, together with a proportionable
dividend of profits. And beyond the deposit, no one to be answerable
for above 10_s._ _per cent._ on brick, and proportionably for part brick
and timber, to any one loss.

X. Every member transferring his policy, and the executors or
administrators of every member dying, shall within three months at
farthest, give notice thereof to the directors or their clerk, and
bring the policy to the office, to have such transfer, or death,
indorsed, and enter’d in the books, and in default thereof the benefit
of the insurance to be lost. Every of which indorsements to be sign’d
by two trustees at least, and 6_d._ for every 100_l._ on each removal
insured to be paid for the same. Provided, that if the directors do not
allow of such executor, administrator or assignee to be a member, or do
not admit of any such indorsement of any such transfer, or death, (all
questions thereabouts to be decided by balloting) then such executor,
administrator or assignee, or person, shall only have what shall be
due to their respective policies, and all farther demands on the said
policies shall henceforth cease, any forfeitures or disabilities
incurred by the breach of this article, where no loss has happened, may
be relieved by the directors, if from the nature and circumstances of
the case they think it reasonable.

XI. Any members of this society removing their goods from the places
where they were assured, shall have no benefit of such assurance, or
be paid for any loss that may happen, till such removal be allowed by
the directors for the time being; and if notice be not given of such
removal within three kalendar months after the time of such removal,
the policy to be void.

XII. The insurance of any goods, _&c._ in this society, which shall
be insured in any other office at the same time, to be void: And yet
such insurer shall be liable to his covenants. Nevertheless a liberty
is given to insure in any other office, so as such other insurance
is indorsed on this society’s policy, and subscribed by two of the
trustees, for which 6_d._ _per cent._ is to be paid; and in which case a
proportionable part of any loss is to be paid by this society.

XIII. All members sustaining any loss, shall give immediate notice
of it to the directors, or clerk, in order to a view, and shall make
out their loss by the oaths on affirmations of themselves, or by
their domesticks or servants, or by their books or vouchers, or the
Certificates of the minister, churchwardens, constables, or other
neighbouring inhabitants, not concern’d in such loss, or by such other
method as the directors shall reasonably require; and in case of fraud
or perjury, such pretended sufferers to lose all benefits of the
insurance. In case of any violent suspicion of fraud or clandestine
practices, (though the same for want of evidence may not be fully
proved) it shall be lawful for the directors to declare such member’s
policy void, and exclude him the society; and he is never afterwards to
be capable of insuring in this office. All questions relating thereunto
to be decided among the directors by balloting.

XIV. The directors, shall on all alarms of fire meet together at their
office to determine upon the methods most conducive to the safety of
the office, and service of the public.

XV. The directors with all convenient expedition, after any loss, shall
settle a rate of contribution, and set it up in the office, and publish
it in the Gazette, and otherwise as they think fit. And when such loss
amounts to 50_l._ or upwards, such rate shall be settled by a majority
of the directors at two successive weekly-meetings at the least; and
if any five members, insuring to the value of 5000_l._ think themselves
agrieved, they may within fourteen days after such publication, inspect
all the office accounts, _&c._ and offer their exceptions to the
directors; and not being there agreed, it shall stand referred to the
next general meeting. Nevertheless when such rates shall exceed the
deposit-money, every member shall pay into the office his proportion,
within thirty days after such publication; and all defaulters may by
the directors be excluded the benefit of their insurances, and yet be
liable to the payment of the said rates, pursuant to these articles.

Other offices of insurance on goods either deduct at least 3 _per
cent._ out of each claim for defraying charges, _&c._ or oblige the
sufferers to agree to an average; which this office is so far from
doing, that no person is put to any charge but that of an affidavit to
prove his loss. And though it is objected against this office, that
the members are liable to farther contributions, upon extraordinary
losses, which is not the case in any other office that insures goods;
yet this is certainly so far from being an objection against the Union
Office, and a recommendation of those other offices, with such as
reason justly, that this single confederation proves the excellency of
the Union establishment, in making such provision for answering losses,
as it is presumed, cannot be exceeded by any human contrivance. This
office has paid since its first establishment in 1715 to the end of the
year 1757, to sufferers by fire, the sum of 62,538_l._ 18_s._ 11_d._ ½
besides which, there have paid to porters and other necessary charges
occasioned by fires upwards of 5600_l._

This office is under the management of twenty-four directors, elected
by a majority of the members out of their own body, by balloting, at
a general meeting in the month of September; at which time the oldest
eight of the twenty-four go out, and eight others are elected in their
stead in a way of constant rotation. These appoint all the other
officers, and meet every Wednesday in the afternoon between the hours
of three and seven, to dispatch business, and in March to ascertain
the dividends and contributions for the preceding year. The directors
annually chuse out of their own body by balloting, a treasurer, and
two assistant treasurers; also six trustees, three of whom sign all
policies; and five auditors, to examine and pass the accounts; but
as this office is solely calculated for the public good, none of the
directors have any advantage above the rest of the members.

There are porters and watermen, _&c._ provided by the office, who
assist in removing of goods; these wearing the societies livery and
badge, and having given security for their fidelity, may be trusted
in case of danger. _Extracted from a copy_ _of the proposals, and an
abstract of the deed of settlement received at the office in_ October
1758.


UNION _square_, in the Minories.


UNION _stairs_, Wapping.


UNION _street_, 1. King street, Westminster: 2. New Bond street.


UPHOLDERS, or UPHOLSTERERS, a fraternity incorporated by letters patent
granted by King Charles I. in the year 1627. They are governed by a
master, two wardens, and twenty-eight assistants with a livery of an
hundred and thirty-one members; who upon their admission, pay a fine of
4_l._ 10_s._ but they have no hall.


UPPER _Brook street_, Grosvenor square.†


UPPER _East Smithfield_, near Tower Hill.


UPPER _Ground street_, near the Falcon, Southwark.


UPPER _Gun-alley_, Wapping.*


UPPER _Middle-row_, Broad St. Giles’s.§


UPPER _Moorfields_, near St. Luke’s hospital.


UPPER _Millbank_, Horseferry.


UPPER _Moorfields-row_, Upper Moorfields.


UPPER SHADWELL _street_, Shadwell.


UPPER _street_, Islington, the street and row on the west side of
Islington.


UPPER _Turn-stile_, High Holbourn.☐


UPPER _Well-alley_, Wapping.


_Gentleman_, USHERS, an order of officers under the Lord Chamberlain,
of which there are several classes, as the gentlemen ushers of the
privy chamber; those of the presence chamber daily-waiters; and those
who are quarter-waiters in ordinary.

The gentlemen ushers of the privy-chamber are four in number, and have
the power of commanding all officers under them in the privy-lodgings,
the bed-chamber excepted, and when there is a Queen, have the honour
of leading her, in the absence of the Lord Chamberlain and Vice
Chamberlain. The salary of each is 400_l._ a year.

The gentlemen ushers of the presence chamber, are also four, who are
daily-waiters in ordinary, the first of whom has the considerable
office of black rod. This gentleman in time of parliament attends every
day the house of Lords, and is also usher of the most noble order of
the Garter. See BLACK ROD. These gentlemen ushers wait in the presence
chamber, where they attend next the King’s person; these under the Lord
Chamberlain and Vice Chamberlain order all affairs, and all the under
officers above stairs obey them. They have each 150_l._ _per annum_.
There is also an assistant gentleman usher whose salary is 66_l._ 13_s._
4_d._ a year.

The gentlemen ushers quarterly-waiters in ordinary, are eight in
number. These also wait in the presence chamber, and give directions
in the absence of the gentlemen ushers daily-waiters, to whom they are
subordinate. Their salary is only 50_l._ a year. _Chamberlain’s present
state._


USHER’S _court_, Seething lane, Tower street.†


UXBRIDGE, a town in Middlesex, in the road from London to Oxford,
from the first of which it is distant eighteen miles and a half.
Though it is entirely independent, and is governed by two bailiffs,
two constables, and four headboroughs, it is only a hamlet to Great
Hillington. The river Coln runs through it in two streams, full of
trout, eels, and other fish, and over the main stream is a stone bridge
that leads into Buckinghamshire. The church, or rather chapel, was
built in the reign of Henry VI. This town has many good inns, and is
particularly distinguished by the whiteness of the bread, particularly
their rolls. There are many corn-mills at a small distance, and a
considerable number of waggon loads of meal are carried from thence
every week to London. Uxbridge gives the title of Earl to the noble
family of Paget.


          W.


WADE’S _rents_, Gunpowder alley.†


WAITE’S _yard_, Blackman street, Southwark.†


WAKE’S _court_, Five Feet lane.†


WALBROOK, a street which runs down from the south-west corner of the
Mansion-house, towards the Thames. This street, which is chiefly
inhabited by merchants and tradesmen, especially furriers, took its
name from a rivulet called Walbrook, on account of its entering the
city through the wall, between Bishopsgate and Moorgate, and after many
turnings and windings, ran down this street, and emptied itself into
the Thames near Dowgate. The loss of this rivulet was owing to the
many bridges built over it, which at last increased to such a number,
covered with houses, that whole streets were erected over it, and the
channel of the river became a common sewer.


WALBROOK CHURCH. See St. STEPHEN’S WALBROOK.


WALBROOK WARD, takes its name from the above street. It is bounded
on the east by Langbourn ward, on the south, by Dowgate ward; on
the west, by Cordwainers ward; and on the north, by Cheap ward. Its
principal streets and lanes are, Walbrook, Cannon street on both sides
the way from Green Lettice court to Abchurch lane; the east end of
Bucklersbury; St. Swithin’s lane, almost as far as Bearbinder lane, a
small part of Lombard street, and almost all Bearbinder lane.

The most remarkable buildings are the fine church of St. Stephen
Walbrook, and St. Swithin’s; the Mansion-house for the residence of the
Lord Mayor; Salter’s hall; and that antient piece of antiquity called
London stone.

This ward is governed by an Alderman, and eight common council men, one
of whom is the Alderman’s deputy; thirteen inquestmen, six scavengers,
seven constables, and a beadle. The jurymen returned by the wardmote
inquest serve in the several courts of Guildhall in the month of
October.


WALINGFORD _court_, Throgmorton street.†


WALKER’S _court_, 1. Berwick street, Old Soho.† 2. Knave’s Acre.†


WALKER’S _yard_, Tothill street.†


WALL of _London_. See LONDON WALL.


WALL’S _alley_, in the Minories.†


WALLIS’S _street_, Shoreditch.†


WALNUT-TREE _alley_, 1. Bishopsgate street.‡ 2. Tooley street,
Southwark.‡


WALNUT-TREE _court_, Tooley street.‡ 2. Whitechapel.‡


WALNUT-TREE _yard_, Bishopsgate street without.‡


WALTER’S ALMSHOUSES, of these there are the three following founded
by Mr. John Walter, citizen and draper: one of which was in Blackman
street, Southwark, built and endowed in the year 1651, for four poor
men and eight poor women, each of whom receives 5_s._ a month, 10_s._
every new year’s day, and a chaldron of coals yearly. This almhouse
is now removed to the south-east side of the New Road, leading from
Westminster bridge to Blackman street.

Another founded by the same person in the year 1651, at Newington
Butts, for sixteen poor men and women, who have each an allowance of
5_s._ _per_ month, half a chaldron of coals every year, and 10_s._ every
new year’s day.

Another in Old street, founded by the above Mr. Walters, in the year
1658, for eight poor widows, each of whom have likewise an allowance
of 5_s._ _per_ month, and half a chaldron of coals every Christmas.
_Maitland._


WALTON, a village in Surry, situated on the Thames, opposite to
Shepperton in Middlesex. It is said that the last mentioned county
once joined to this town, till about 300 years ago, the old current of
the Thames was changed by an inundation, and a church destroyed by the
waves.

At this place is a very curious bridge over the Thames, erected by the
public spirited Samuel Decker, Esq; who lives in this town, and who
applying to parliament for that purpose, obtained in the year 1747,
an act to impower him to erect a bridge there, and this admirable
structure was completed in August 1750.

It consists of only four stone piers, between which are three large
truss arches of beams and joists of wood, strongly bound together with
mortises, iron pins, and cramps; under these three arches the water
constantly runs; besides which are five other arches of brick-work on
each side, to render the ascent and descent the more easy; but there
is seldom water under any of them, except in great floods, and four of
them on the Middlesex side are stopped up, they being on high ground
above the reach of the floods.

The middle arch, when viewed by the river side, affords an agreeable
prospect of the country, beautifully diversified with wood and water,
which is seen through it to a considerable distance. The prodigious
compass of this great arch to a person below, occasions a very uncommon
sensation of awe and surprize; and his astonishment and attention
are increased, when he proceeds to take notice, that all the timbers
are in a falling position; for there is not one upright piece to be
discovered; and at the same time considers the very small dimensions
of the piers by which the whole is supported. The manner of its
construction is better shewn in the print than can be described in
words.

In passing over this bridge, when you have proceeded past the
brick-work, the vacant interfaces between the timbers, yield, at every
step, a variety of prospects, which, at the centre, are seen to a
still greater advantage. But though each side is well secured by the
timber and rails, to the height of eight feet; yet as it affords only
a parapet of wide lattice-work, and the apertures seem, even to the
eye, large enough to admit the passage of any person to go through,
provided he climbs, or is lifted up, and as the water is seen through
every opening at a great depth below, those unused to such views cannot
approach the side without some apprehensions.

It would, indeed, have been easy to have closed these openings between
the braces and rails with boards; but they are purposely left open to
admit a free passage for the air, in order to keep the timbers the more
sound, and that the least decay may be the more easily perceived and
repaired.

From this admirable bridge the nobility and gentry in this
neighbourhood find a very agreeable benefit, especially as the ferries
are dilatory, dangerous, and at times impassable; and its being erected
has caused the roads thereabouts, in both counties, especially on the
Surry side, to be greatly improved.


WALTHAM ABBEY, a village in Essex, on the east side of the river Lea,
which here dividing, incloses some islands with fine meadows, and
parts it from Waltham Cross. The abbey from whence it took its name,
was built in honour of the holy cross, by Harold son to Earl Godwin,
to whom Edward the Confessor gave the village; and this abbey Harold
endowed with West Waltham, now called Waltham Cross, and sixteen other
manors. Its abbots, who were mitred, and had the twentieth place in
parliament, lived in a most splendid, but hospitable manner, and were
frequently visited by Henry III. when he was reduced, and obliged to
carry his family about for a dinner. The abbey was at its dissolution
bestowed by King Henry VIII. on Sir Anthony Denny, his groom of the
stole, whose grandson afterwards employing workmen to convert it into
a seat for himself, they are said to have dug up the corpse of Harold,
which after his being slain in battle against William the Conqueror,
was at his mother’s request, by the Conqueror’s consent, interred in
the abbey.

This is now, or was lately, the seat of —— Jones, Esq; the gardens
belonging to the house, were some years since much admired; but since
the taste for inclosed gardens has been condemned, they have been
little frequented unless by some curious persons, to see the fine tulip
tree that grows in a grass plot near the house.


WALTHAM CROSS, also called West Waltham, is a post and market town
on the west side of the river Lea in Middlesex, in the road to Ware,
twelve measured miles from London. It takes its distinguishing epithet
from the cross built there by Edward I. in honour of his beloved Queen
Eleanor, whose corps in its way from Lincolnshire to London rested
here. That Princess’s effigies are placed round the pillar with the
arms of her consort, and those of her own, _viz._ England, Castile,
Leon, and Poictou, which are still in part remaining though greatly
defaced.


WALTHAMSTOW, a village in Essex, situated on the river Lea, contiguous
to Low-Layton. Here are three manors, Walthamstow Tony or High-hall,
Walthamstow Frances, or Low-hall, which was the manor of the late J.
Conyers, Esq; and the manor of the rectory, which once belonged to
Trinity abbey in London.

In this parish are several ancient seats, and handsome houses,
belonging to persons of distinction, the most remarkable of which was
that of Higham-hall, pleasantly situated upon Higham-hills, a rising
ground, about half a mile north from Clay street, just above the river
Lea, overlooking the counties of Middlesex and Hertfordshire, and
commanding a most delightful and extensive prospect. It has been a
magnificent and spacious fabric, and in ancient times, when the Lords
resided upon their royalties, no place could be more admirably situated
than this mansion, erected at the top of the hill of Higham, and having
within its view the whole extent of its jurisdiction: but there are now
hardly any traces of its ancient grandeur remaining.

The church of Walthamstow, dedicated to the Blessed Virgin, is a large
edifice situated upon a hill, and consists of three isles, that on the
north side built by Sir George Monox, Knt. Alderman and Lord Mayor of
London in the reign of Henry VIII. is called Monox’s isle; that on
south side bears the name of Thorne’s isle, from a citizen and merchant
taylor of that name, who was probably at the expence of building it. In
this church are a great number of monuments.

Before the communion table within the rails, is a piece of marble over
the body of Doctor Pierse, Bishop of Bath and Wells.

On leaving the altar there is a monument erected to the memory of Sir
Thomas Stanley, Knt. second son to the Earl of Derby, on which there is
the effigy of a Lady on her knees. Besides which there are many others.
_Additions to Stows Survey._


WALTON’S _court_, Church-yard alley.†


WANDSWORTH, a village in Surry, situated between Battersea and Putney,
is said to obtain its name from the river Wandle, which passes through
it under a bridge called the _sink of the country_, into the Thames.
Here are several handsome houses belonging to the gentry and citizens
of London.


WANLEY’S _court_, Black Friars.†


WANSTED, a village in Essex, adjoining to Woodford, and separated from
Barking parish by the river Roding. There are in this place and its
neighbourhood several fine seats of the nobility, gentry and wealthy
citizens; but their lustre is greatly eclipsed by Wansted-house, the
magnificent seat of the Earl of Tilney. This noble seat was prepared
by Sir Josiah Child, his Lordship’s grandfather, who added to the
advantage of a fine situation, a vast number of rows of trees, planted
in avenues and vistas leading up to the spot of ground where the old
house stood. The late Lord, before he was enobled, laid out the most
spacious pieces of ground in gardens, that are to be seen in this part
of England. The green house is a very superb building furnished with
stoves and artificial places for heat, from an apartment which has a
bagnio, and other conveniences, that render it both useful and pleasant.

The house was built since these gardens were finished, and is a
magnificent edifice two hundred and sixty feet in length, and seventy
in depth, fronted with Portland stone, which, where it is not
discoloured by the smoke, as in London, grows whiter and whiter, the
longer it is exposed to the open air.

[Illustration:
      _S. Wale delin._      _J. Taylor sc._
    _Wansted, the Seat of the Earl of Tilney._]

The fore front of the house has a long vista that reaches to the great
road at Leighton Stone, and from the back front facing the gardens is
an easy descent that leads to the terrace, and affords a most beautiful
prospect of the river, which is formed into canals; and beyond it the
walks and wildernesses extend to a great distance, rising up the hill,
as they sloped downwards before; so that the sight is lost in the
woods, and the whole country, as far as the eye can reach, appears one
continued garden. _Tour through Great Britain._

The house was built by the late Earl of Tilney and designed by Col.
Campbell, and is certainly one of the noblest houses not only near
London, but in the kingdom: it consists of two stories, the state and
ground story. This latter is the basement, into which you enter by a
door in the middle underneath the grand entrance, which is in a noble
portico of six Corinthian columns supporting a pediment in which are
the arms of this nobleman. To this you ascend by a flight of steps
and pass into a magnificent saloon richly decorated with painting and
sculpture, through which you pass into the other state rooms which are
suitably furnished with pictures, gilding, velvet, tapestry, and other
rich hangings. Before this house is an octangular bason which seems
equal to the length of the front, here are no wings, though it seems
probable it was the original design of the architect. On each side as
you approach the house, are two marble statues of Hercules and Venus,
with obelisks and vases alternately placed, which makes some attonement
for the defect just mentioned. The garden front has no portico, but a
pediment with a bas relief supported by six three quarter columns.

The parish church has been lately rebuilt, chiefly by the liberality of
Sir Richard Child, Bart. Lord Viscount Castlemain, and in the chancel
is a very superb monument for Sir Josiah Child, whose statue in white
marble stands pointing downward to the inscription. Underneath lies
the figure of Bernard his second son, and on each side sits a woman,
vailed, one leaning her head upon her hand, and the other closing
her hands and wringing them. There are also several boys in mourning
postures, and one expressing the vanity of life by blowing up a bubble.


WAPPING, anciently an hamlet in the parish of St. Mary Whitechapel,
situated on the north bank of the Thames, at some distance east
from London, but by the increase of buildings is not only rendered
a separate and distinct parish, but is entirely joined to this
metropolis. The site of this parish is supposed by Maitland to have
been formerly within the flux of the river Thames; but when, or by whom
it was at first imbanked, is unknown; however, the same author supposes
it to have been first taken from the river about the year 1544; though
it was not inhabited till after the year 1571.

Mr. Strype, in his edition of Stow’s Survey, gives the following
account of the origin of this hamlet. The banks of the river Thames,
says he, were frequently damaged by the inundations of that river,
particularly about the year 1561, when several breaches were made
therein, and these were no sooner repaired, than another happened in
1571, when the commissioners of sewers, after viewing the place, were
of opinion, that the most effectual way to secure the bank of the river
in those parts, would be to erect houses thereon, upon which the first
foundation of the houses of Wapping was laid.

The most remarkable things in this district are St. John’s church, a
Presbyterian, Quakers, and French meeting houses; a work-house for
the reception of the poor, and two charity schools; one square, a
yard for ship-building, and eight pair of stairs or steps to go down
to and return from the river, two of which are denominated docks, the
one being called Bell-dock, and the other Execution-dock, this is the
common place of execution for pirates, who are here hung on a gallows
which projects over the river.


WAPPING DOCK _stairs_, Wapping.


WAPPING DOCK _street_, Wapping,


WAPPING _New-stairs_, Wapping.


WAPPING _Old-stairs_, at Wapping.


WAPPING _street_, Hermitage.


WAPPING _wall_, Shadwell.


WAR OFFICE, at Whitehall. This office is under the government of the
secretary at war, who has under him a deputy secretary, a first clerk,
and twelve other clerks.


WARDENS _court_, Clerkenwell-close.


WARDS, certain districts into which the city and its liberties are
divided, each being under the government of an Alderman and his deputy,
and represented by several common councilmen.

Maitland supposes that the first division of this city into wards was
not merely on account of government, as at present; but that London,
like the other cities and towns in this kingdom, was anciently held of
the Saxon Kings and nobility in demesne, and their several properties
therein being so many sokes or liberties, were under the immediate
dominion of their respective Lords, who were the governors or wardens
thereof, and from thence arose the Saxon appellation ward, which
signifies a quarter or district. This opinion, he adds, is not only
corroborated by the wards of Baynard’s Castle, Faringdon, Coleman
street, and Basinghall, or Bassishaw’s, still retaining the names of
their ancient proprietors, but also by the other wards of the city
being alienable, and the purchasers becoming the proprietors thereof,
with the additional epithet of Aldermen.

What the number of wards in this city at first was, does not appear
upon record; however, by the first account we have of them in the year
1284, we find that they were then twenty-four; but in 1393, Faringdon
being much increased in the number of its houses and inhabitants,
was divided by parliament into the inward and outward wards, whereby
the number was augmented to twenty-five; and in 1550, the citizens
having purchased the borough of Southwark of King Edward VI. with the
privileges belonging to it, they erected that into a twenty-sixth
ward: but the power granted them by charter, not proving sufficient
to support their title to it, by excluding the justices of peace for
the county of Surry from interfering in the government, it became only
a nominal ward: it, however, serves to dignify the senior Alderman,
called _The father of the city_, who generally, by his great age, is
rendered unable to undergo the fatigue of business, and has therefore
this ward, in which there is no business to be done.

The wards into which the city is divided were originally known by
other names, though they have long been called by those by which
they are at present distinguished. These are, Aldersgate, Aldgate,
Bassishaw, Billingsgate, Bishopsgate, Bread street, Bridge ward within,
Bridge ward without, Broad street, Candlewick, Castle Baynard, Cheap,
Cordwainer, Coleman street, Cornhill, Cripplegate, Dowgate, Faringdon
within, Faringdon without, Langbourn, Lime street, Queenhithe,
Portsoken, Tower street, Vintry and Walbrook, of each of which we have
given a particular account under the several articles. ALDERSGATE WARD,
ALDGATE WARD, BASSISHAW WARD, _&c._

Every one of these wards is like a little free state under the
government of its own Alderman and his deputy, who is always one of the
common council, and is at the same time subject to the Lord Mayor as
chief magistrate of the city. The housekeepers of each ward elect their
representatives the common council, who join in making by-laws for the
government of the city; and each ward has a number of officers and
servants, who are solely employed in the business of their respective
districts. Of these there are in the several wards, 26 Aldermen, 236
common councilmen, 241 constables, 423 inquestmen, 218 scavengers,
who employ rakers to clean the streets, at the expence of 3466_l._
19_s._ _per annum_; 32 beadles, 672 watch-men, to prevent robberies by
night, and 4800 lamps, to illuminate the streets, all maintained at
the expence of the wards in which they are placed. In short each ward
manages the affairs belonging to it, without the assistance of the
rest, and each has a court for the management of its affairs, called a
court of wardmote.


_Court of_ WARDMOTE, is thus denominated from the words Ward and Mote,
that is, the Ward-court. It is constituted for transacting the business
of the ward, for which purpose the Lord Mayor annually issues a precept
to the several Aldermen, to hold a court of wardmote on St. Thomas’s
day.


WARDOURS _street_, Oxford street.


WARDROBE, or the King’s great wardrobe, in Scotland-yard. This office
in ancient times was usually kept near Puddle-wharf, Great Carter lane,
in an house built by Sir John Beauchamp, son to Guy de Beauchamp, Earl
of Warwick, and afterwards sold to King Edward III.

The master of this office is an officer of great antiquity and dignity.
High privileges and immunities were conferred on him by Henry VI. which
were confirmed by his successors, and King James I. not only enlarged
them, but ordained that this office should be a corporation, or body
politic, for ever.

This office provides robes for the coronations, marriages, and funerals
of the Royal Family; furnishes the court with hangings, cloths of
state, carpets, beds, and other necessaries; furnishes houses for
Embassadors at their first arrival; cloths of state, and other
furniture for the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and all his Majesty’s
Embassadors abroad; provides all robes for foreign Knights of the
garter, robes for the Knights of the garter at home, with robes and
all other furniture for the officers of the garter; coats for kings,
heralds, and pursuivants at arms; robes for the Lords of the Treasury,
and Chancellor of the Exchequer, _&c._ livery for the Lord Chamberlain,
Grooms of his Majesty’s privy-chamber, officers of his Majesty’s robes;
for the two Chief Justices, for all the Barons of the Exchequer, and
several officers in those courts; all liveries for his Majesty’s
servants, as yeomen of the guard, and wardens of the Tower, trumpeters,
kettle-drummers, drummers and fifes; the messengers, and all belonging
to the stables, as coachmen, footmen, littermen, postillions and
grooms, _&c._ all the King’s coaches, chariots, harnesses, saddles,
bits, bridles, _&c._ the King’s watermen, game-keepers, _&c._ as also
furniture for the royal yachts, and all rich embroidered tilts, and
other furniture for the barges. _Chamberlain’s present state._

Besides the master or keeper of the wardrobe, who has a salary of 800
_l._ a year; and his deputy, who has 200_l._ there are a comptroller
and a patent clerk, each of whom has 300_l._ a year, two under clerks
and a clerk of the robes and wardrobes; besides many tradesmen and
artificers, to the number of about sixty, who are all sworn servants to
the King.

Besides the great wardrobe, there is a removing wardrobe, to which
there belong a yeoman, who has 230_l._ _per annum_; two grooms, who
have 130_l._ a year each, and two pages, each of whom has 100_l._ _per
annum_.

There are likewise standing wardrobe-keepers at St. James’s,
Windsor Castle, Hampton Court, Kensington, and Somerset house.


WARDROBE _court_, Great Carter lane, so called from the above wardrobe
formerly situated there. See the foregoing article.

WARD’S _court_, Goswell street.†


WARE, a town in Hertfordshire, situated on the river Lea, twenty-two
miles from London. As this town lies low, and upon a level with the
river, it was drowned in the year 1408, by floods from the neighbouring
park and other uplands; and sluices and wears being made in its river
to preserve it from the like inundations, Camden supposes, that it from
thence acquired the name of Ware.

The plenty of water about this town gave rise to that admirable
project of cutting a channel from hence, for conveying the New River
to London. Here is a very considerable market for corn, and so great
is the malt trade here, and in the neighbourhood, that 5000 quarters
of malt and other corn are frequently sent in a week to London, by
the barges, which return with coals. Here is a school for the younger
children of Christ’s hospital in London, a charity school, and six or
seven almshouses; and at the crown inn is a great bed much visited by
travellers, it being twelve feet square, and is said to hold twenty
people.

The heir of the late Thomas Byde, Esq; Lord of the manor, has a house
pleasantly situated in the park, with an ascent on every side: and
among other improvements, is a vineyard, and a canal cut from the Rib,
which turns that stream along the south side of the park.


WAREHOUSE _yard_, 1. Bridge yard: 2. Mincing lane, Fenchurch street.


WARNER’S _square_, Wapping.†


WARNER’S _street_, Coldbath fields.†


WARNER’S _yard_, Mincing lane, Fenchurch street.†


WARNFORD _court_, Throgmorton street, Lothbury.†


WARWICK _court_, 1. Berry street: 2. High Holbourn: 3. Warwick lane.
See the next article: 4. Warwick street Charing cross.


WARWICK _lane_, extends from Newgate street to the end of Paternoster
row, near Amen corner, and obtained its name, from there being formerly
here in Warwick court, the city mansion of the Earls of Warwick.
_Maitland._ This lane is now famous for its containing the College of
Physicians.


WARWICK _street_, 1. Charing cross: 2. Cockspur street, Pallmall: 3.
near Golden square: 4. Mary le Bonne.


WARWICK’S _wharf_, near the Strand.†


WASHERMAID’S _alley_. Five Feet lane.


WASHER’S _yard_, White’s yard, Rosemary lane.


WATCH-HOUSE _bridge yard_, Old Horselydown lane.


WATER BAILIFF, one of the great officers of the city, whose business
is to prevent all encroachments on the river Thames; to look after the
fishermen for the preservation of the young fry, and to prevent their
being destroyed by the use of unlawful nets. For this purpose there
are juries in each county, bordering on the river, summoned by the
water bailiff to make enquiry of all offences relating to the river and
the fish; and to make their presentments accordingly. See the article
THAMES.

The water bailiff, has apartments in Cripplegate, and is obliged, on
set days in the week to attend the Lord Mayor. _Maitland._


WATERCOCK _alley_, East Smithfield.


WATERGRUEL _row_, Hackney.


WATERHOUSE _lane_, Lower Shadwell.

WATERHOUSE _wharf_, London Bridge.

WATER _lane_, 1. Black Friars: 2. Fleet street: 3. Mill street: 4.
Tower street. All these lanes lead to the Thames.

WATERMAN’S _alley_, New street, St. Thomas’s.

WATERMAN’S _court_, Pepper alley, near the south end of London Bridge.

WATERMAN’S _lane_, White Friars.

WATERMEN, a company under the power and command of the Lord Mayor. For
the regulation of this fraternity several statutes have been made,
particularly on the second and third of Philip and Mary, when it was
enacted, among other things, that at the first court of Aldermen in
London, next after the first of March, eight overseers should be chosen
out of the watermen between Gravesend and Windsor, to keep order among
the rest.

That the Lord Mayor and Aldermen of London, and the justices of peace
within the counties adjoining to the river Thames, upon complaint of
any two of the overseers, or of any waterman’s master, have power, not
only to hear and determene any offence committed against this act; but
to enlarge any watermen unjustly confined by those overseers; but also
to punish the overseers themselves, in case they make an ill use of
their power.

That the court of Aldermen should assess the fares of watermen, which
being subscribed by two at least of the privy council, should be set up
in Guildhall and Westminster Hall, _&c._ and the waterman that takes
more than according to the fare so assessed, shall, for every such
offence, suffer half a year’s imprisonment, and forfeit 40_s._

That any waterman withdrawing himself in time of pressing, shall suffer
a fortnight’s imprisonment, and be prohibited rowing any more on the
Thames for a year and a day.

Other regulations were made in the succeeding reigns, particularly
in that of William III. when for the better ordering and governing
the watermen, wherrymen and lightermen, on the river Thames, it was
enacted, that every lighterman, or owner, keeper, or worker of any
lighter, or other large craft on the Thames between Gravesend and
Windsor, shall be taken to be of the society, or company of wherrymen,
watermen and lightermen, who by this act are made a society, or company
under the direction of the court of Lord Mayor and Aldermen of this
city; who are thereby impowered annually to appoint eight persons of
the best character among the watermen, and three persons out of twelve
annually nominated by the lightermen; which eleven persons are to be
stiled, the overseers and rulers of all the wherrymen, watermen, and
lightermen, that shall use or exercise any rowing upon the river of
Thames between Gravesend and Windsor; in order to keep good order among
the watermen and lightermen.

By this act the rulers and assistants of the company are likewise
enabled annually on the first of June, to appoint and direct the
watermen of the principal towns, stairs, and plying places between
Gravesend and Windsor; and to chuse a free waterman who is a
housekeeper, for each of the said places, to be of their assistants,
so that they do not exceed the number of sixty, nor be less than that
of forty; to which shall be added nine lightermen, who together shall
compose the number of assistants of the said company.

These overseers are by the above act impowered to appoint any number
of watermen not exceeding forty, to ply and work on Sundays between
Vauxhall and Limehouse, at such stairs and plying places, being
seventeen in number, besides the two at Westminster, for carrying
passengers across the river Thames, for one penny each: the money
arising thereby, which annually amounts to about 1450_l._ including
those at Westminster, is by each of the working watermen to be paid
every Monday morning, to the order of the said rulers; who, after
having paid those watermen their proper wages, the surplus is to
be applied to the use of the poor of the company. The watermen of
Westminster being however exempt from the immediate direction of the
watermens company in this affair, they annually appoint their own
watermen to ply and work on Sundays, for carrying passengers across
the Thames, from and to Westminster bridge and Stangate, and the
horse-ferry at Lambeth; which money is applied to the use of the poor
watermen, or their widows, of St. Margaret’s parish.

It is also declared in the said act, that if the Lord High Admiral, or
the Commissioners of the Admiralty, shall at any time give notice to
the watermens company, that there is occasion for a certain number of
that company to serve on board the royal navy; then all such persons
as shall be duly summoned for that purpose, and shall not appear
before the overseers and rulers of that company, shall not only suffer
imprisonment for one month; but be rendered incapable of enjoying any
privilege belonging to the company for two years.

In the year 1701, an order was made by the court of rulers, auditors
and assistants of the company of watermen and lightermen of the river
Thames, observing, that several watermen and their apprentices, while
they are rowing upon that river, or at their plying places between
Gravesend and Windsor often use immodest, obscene, and lewd expressions
towards passengers, and to each other, that are offensive to all sober
persons, and tend to the corruption of youth, it is ordained, that any
waterman, or lighterman, after the sixteenth of October 1701, convicted
of using such expressions, shall forfeit 2_s._ 6_d._ for every such
offence, and if any waterman or lighterman’s apprentice shall offend
in the same manner, his master or mistress shall on his conviction,
forfeit the like sum; or in case of their refusal, the offender shall
suffer such correction as the rulers of this company shall think fit
and necessary. And that the forfeitures, when paid, shall be applied to
the use of the poor, aged, decayed, and maimed members of the company,
their widows and children.

By the constitutions of this company, all boats and barges belonging to
the several members thereof are obliged to be numbered and entered in
the company’s register; and to prevent the citizens from being imposed
upon, the following table of rates have been appointed by the court of
Lord Mayor and Aldermen to be taken by the respective watermen rowing
upon the river Thames, between Gravesend and Windsor.

_Rates of Watermen plying upon the river Thames, either with oars, or
skullers._

                                       Oars. | Skul.
                                       s. d. | s. d.
  From London Bridge to Limehouse,  }        |
    New Crane, Shadwell dock,       }        |
    Bell wharf, Ratcliff cross      }  1  0  | 0  6

  From London Bridge to Wapping     }        |
    dock, Wapping Old               }        |
    and New-stairs, the Hermitage,  }        |
    or Rotherhithe Church stairs    }  0  6  | 0  3
                                             |
  From St. Olave’s to Rotherhithe   }        |
    Church stairs, and Rotherhithe  }        |
    stairs                          }  0  6  | 0  3
                                             |
  From Billingsgate and St. Olave’s }  0  6  | 0  3
    to St. Saviour’s mill           }        |
                                             |
  From any stairs between London    }        |
  bridge and Westminster            }  0  6  | 0  3
                                             |
  From either side above London     }        |
    bridge to Lambeth, or Vauxhall  }  1  0  | 0  6


  From Whitehall to Lambeth,        }        |
    or Vauxhall                     }  0  6  | 0  3
                                             |
  From the Temple, Dorset-stairs,   }        |
    Black Friars stairs, or         }        |
    Paul’s wharf, to Lambeth        }  0  8  | 0  4
                                             |
  Over the water directly, from     }        |
    any place between Vauxhall      }        |
    and Limehouse                   }  0  4  | 0  2

_Rates of oars up and down the river, as well for the whole fare as
company._

  Up the River.
                                       Fare. | Comp.

  To Chelsea, Battersea, and        }        |
    Wandsworth                      }  1  6  |  0  3
                                             |
  To Putney, Fulham, or Barnelms    }  2  0  |  0  4
                                             |
  To Hammersmith, Chiswick,         }        |
    or Mortlack                     }  2  6  |  0  6
                                             |
  To Brentford, Isleworth, or       }        |
    Richmond                        }  3  6  |  0  6
                                             |
  To Twickenham                        4  0  |  0  6
                                             |
  To Kingston                          5  0  |  0  9
                                             |
  To Hampton Court                     6  0  |  1  0
                                             |
  To Hampton Town, Sunbury,         }        |
    or Walton                       }  7  0  |  1  0
                                             |
  To Weybridge, and Chertsey          10  0  |  1  0
                                             |
  To Stanes                           12  0  |  1  0
                                             |
  To Windsor                          14  0  |  1  0

  Down the River.
                                       Fare. | Comp.
                                       s. d. | s. d.
                                             |
  From London to Gravesend             4  6  | 0  9
  To Grays, or Greenhithe              4  0  | 0  8
  To Purfleet, or Erith                3  0  | 0  6
  To Woolwich                          2  6  | 0  4
  To Blackwall                         2  0  | 0  4
  To Greenwich, or Deptford            1  6  | 0  3

_Rates of carrying goods in the tilt-boat from London to Gravesend._

                                             l. s. d.

  For every single person in the    }
    ordinary passage                }        0  0  9
  For a hogshead                             0  2  0
  For a whole firkin                         0  0  2
  For half a firkin                          0  0  1
  One hundred weight                         0  0  4
  One sack of corn, salt, _&c._              0  0  6
  An ordinary chest, or trunk                0  0  6
  An ordinary hamper                         0  0  6
  The hire of the whole tilt-boat            1  2  6

Any waterman who takes more than the above rates is liable to forfeit
40_s._ and to suffer half a year’s imprisonment, and if he sets up a
sail between Lambeth and London Bridge, upon complaint being made, as
hereafter mentioned, forfeits 5_s._

However any person going by water, need not make any bargain with the
waterman, but only let him know at what stairs he is to land him; then
paying him according to the foregoing rates, if he refuses to accept
the money, the best way is to offer him more money than he demands, and
to charge him not to take more than his due: But be sure to remember
the number of your waterman’s boat; for if he has taken more than his
fare, and you have a mind to correct him for imposing upon you, you may
go to Watermens hall, by the Old Swan-stairs, and acquaint the clerk
with your business (giving him at the same time the number of the boat)
who will summon the waterman to the hall, to answer to your complaint:
And if he is found to have acted against the prescribed rules, he will
be punished according to the nature of his crime, whether it relates to
exaction, sauciness, or other misbehaviour towards you.

It is proper to add, that to prevent the losing the lives of persons
passing on the river, it is enacted in a statute of the 10th of George
II. that no tilt-boat, row-barge, or wherry, take at one time more than
thirty-seven passengers, and three more by the way; nor in any other
boat or wherry more than eight, and two more by the way; nor in any
ferry-boat or wherry, allowed to work on Sundays, any more than eight
passengers, on pain of forfeiting for the first offence 5_l._ for the
second offence 10_l._ and for the third offence to be disfranchised
for twelve months from working on the river, and from enjoying the
privileges of the company: And in case any person shall be drowned,
where a greater number of passengers is taken in than is allowed, the
watermen shall be deemed guilty of felony, and transported as felons.

By the same statute it is also enacted, that every tilt-boat shall be
of the burthen of fifteen tons, and any other boat or wherry three
tons; and that no Gravesend boats or wherries with close decks or bails
nailed down, and not moveable, be navigated, tilt-boats only excepted,
on the penalty of 10_l._

Any watermen or wherrymen who wilfully or negligently lose their tide
from Billingsgate to Gravesend, or from thence to Billingsgate, by
putting ashore for other passengers, or by waiting or loitering by
the way, so that the first passengers shall be set on shore two miles
short of the place to which they are bound; such passengers shall be
discharged from paying any thing for their passage.

The rulers of the watermens company are to appoint two or more
officers to attend, one at Billingsgate, at every time of high-water
at London Bridge, and the other at Gravesend at the first of flood;
who shall publicly ring a bell for fifteen minutes, to give notice
to the tilt-boats and wherries to put off. And if such wherrymen,
_&c._ do not immediately put off on ringing the said bell; and do not
effectually proceed on their voyage, but put on shore within two miles
of Billingsgate or Gravesend, as the case may be; or if such boats are
not navigated by two sufficient men, the youngest to be eighteen years
old at least; in every such case the owners of such boats shall forfeit
5_l._ to be levied on the boats or goods of the owners of such boats.

And if the company of watermen neglect setting up the said bells, and
appointing proper persons to ring them, they shall forfeit 50_l._ as
shall such persons appointed to ring the said bells, forfeit 40_l._ for
every neglect.


WATERMEN’S HALL near London Bridge, a handsome brick building situated
with its front towards the Thames.


WATERSIDE _row_, Upper Ground street.


WATER _street_, 1. Arundel street: 2. Black Friars: 3. Bridewell
Precinct.


WATFORD, a market town in Hertfordshire on the east side of Cashiobury,
and seventeen miles from London, is situated upon the Colne, where
it has two streams that run separately to Rickmansworth. The town is
very long but consists of only one street, which is extremely dirty
in winter, and the waters of the river at the entrance of the town,
were frequently so much swelled by floods as to be impassable: But in
the year 1750, the road at the entrance of Watford was raised by a
voluntary contribution; by which means the river is now confined within
its proper bounds. In the church are several handsome monuments; there
are also a free-school and several almshouses belong to the town.


WATLING _street_, St. Paul’s church-yard; thus called from the Roman
road of the same name, which ran through this street. _Maitland._


WAT’S _alley_, Long ditch.


WATSON’S ALMSHOUSE, in Old street, near Shoreditch, was erected chiefly
at the expence of Mr. William Watson, citizen and weaver, for the
widows of twelve weavers, who annually receive 20_s._ and twenty-four
bushels of coals, with a gown every second year. _Maitland._


WATSON’S _rents_, Angel alley.†


WATTS’S _court_, Deadman’s place.†


WATTS’S _rents_, St. Catharine’s lane.†


WAX CHANDLERS, a company incorporated by letters patent granted by
King Richard III. in the year 1483. This corporation is governed by a
master, two wardens, and twenty assistants; with 113 liverymen, who
upon their admission pay a fine of 5_l._ They have a handsome hall in
Maiden lane, Wood street.


WEATHERBY’S _rents_, Whitecross street Cripplegate.†


WEAVER _alley_, near Spicer’s street, Spitalfields.


WEAVERS, this company, which was anciently denominated _Thenarii_,
appears to have been the most ancient guild of this city, for in
the reign of Henry I. they paid 16_l._ a year to the crown for their
immunities. Their privileges were afterwards confirmed at Winchester by
letters patent granted by Henry II. which are still in the company’s
possession; but are without a date; and in these letters, the annual
sum payable to the crown is fixed at two marks of gold, to be paid
yearly at Michaelmas, on the penalty of 10_l._

This company originally consisted of the cloth, and tapestry weavers,
who in the seventh of Henry IV. were put under the management, and
authority of the Lord Mayor and Aldermen of the city.

They are now governed by two bailiffs, two wardens, and sixteen
assistants, with a livery of 279 members, whose fine upon their
admission is 6_l._

The weavers have a handsome hall in Basinghall street, adorned on
the inside with hangings, fretwork, and a screen of the Ionic order.
_Maitland._


WEAVERS ARMS _yard_, Booth street, Spitalfields.*


WEAVERS _lane_, Horselydown.†


WEAVERS _street_, Fleet street Spitalfields.


WEBB’S _court_, Red Lion alley.†


WEBB’S _square_, Shoreditch.†


WEBB’S _yard_, Vine yard, Old Horselydown lane.†


WEDDON _street_, Chancery lane, Fleet street.


WEIGH-HOUSE, at the north-west corner of Love lane, entering into
Little Eastcheap. This house stands on the ground where the church of
St. Andrew Hubbard stood before the fire of London, at which time the
weigh-house was in Cornhill. In the weigh-house were weighed, by the
King’s beam, foreign merchandize brought to London. It was under a
master, and four master porters, with labouring porters under them; who
used to have carts and horses to fetch the merchants goods to the beam,
and to carry them back.

The house belongs to the grocers company, who chose the several
porters, _&c._ but of late years little is done in this office, as a
compulsive power is wanting to oblige merchants to have their goods
weighed, they alledging it to be an unnecessary trouble and expence.

In a large room over the weigh-house is a commodious meeting-house used
by a congregation of Protestant dissenters.


WELCH COPPER OFFICE, in Philpot lane, Fenchurch street, is under the
government of a company first incorporated by letters patent granted by
King William III. in the year 1694, by the stile of the Governor and
company of copper miners of the principality of Wales: by which charter
they are allowed to purchase lands, tenements, _&c._ in mortmain,
without limitation. _Maitland._


WELL _alley_, 1. in the Minories: 2. near Tooley street, Southwark: 3.
Ropemakers fields, Limehouse.


WELL AND BUCKET _alley_, Old street.


WELL AND BUCKET _court_, Old street.


WELLBECK _street_, a handsome new street, by Marybone fields, built on
the estate of the late Earl of Oxford, and thus named from Wellbeck his
Lordship’s seat in Hertfordshire.


WELLBECK _mews_, a street of stables, coach-houses, _&c._ by Wellbeck
street.


WELLCLOSE _square_, by the upper end of Rosemary lane, by some called
_Marine square_, from the number of sea officers who live there. It is
a neat square of no great extent; its principal ornament is the Danes
church, situated in the centre, in the midst of a church-yard well
planted with trees, and surrounded by a handsome wall adorned at equal
distances with iron rails.

This church is a commodious and elegant structure. Though the architect
appears to have understood ornaments, he has not been too lavish in the
use of them. The edifice consists of a tall and handsome body, with a
tower and turret. The body is divided by the projection of the middle
part, into a fore front in the center, and two smaller: at the west end
is the tower, and at the east it swells into the sweep of circle; the
corners of the building are faced with rustic. The windows, which are
large and well proportioned, are cased with stone with a cherub’s head
at the top of the arch, and the roof is concealed by a blocking course.
The tower has a considerable diminution in the upper stage, which has
on each side, a pediment, and is covered by a dome, from which rises an
elegant turret, supported by composite columns.


WELL _court_, 1. Glean alley, Tooley street: 2. Queen street,
Cheapside: 3. Shoe lane, Fleet street.


WELL _yard_, 1. Church-yard alley, Rosemary lane: 2. Little Britain.


WELLS, a rivulet which anciently ran through a part of this metropolis,
and was called the river of Wells, and was thus named from its having
many springs uniting to supply its current. It afterwards obtained the
name of Turnmill brook, from certain mills erected upon it, by the
Knights of St. John of Jerusalem, which appellation is still preserved
in a street of that name called Turnmill street, through part of which
this water took its course, towards the bottom of Holbourn hill, and
thence into the Thames. _Maitland._


WELLS _row_, Islington.


WELLS _street_, 1. Coverlid’s fields, East Smithfield.† 2. Great
Jermain street.† 3. Hackney.†


WELLS _yard_, 1. Mainhard street, near St. Giles’s Pound.† 2.
Wells row, Islington.


WENCHES _yard_, in the Minories.║


WENTWORTH _street_, Petticoat lane, Spitalfields.†


WERE’S _row_, Whitechapel.†


WESTBURY _street_, Wheeler street, Spitalfields.†


WEST _court_, Spitalfields market.


WESTBY’S ALMSHOUSE, on Hoxton causeway, was founded by Mrs. Mary Westby
of Bocking in Essex, widow, in the year 1749, for ten poor women.
_Maitland._


WESTERHAM or WESTRAM, a neat well built market town, on the western
borders of Kent, situated about eight miles to the west of Sevenoaks.
Near this place, a very noble seat was begun to be built by a private
gentleman; but it was finished by the late Earl of Jersey, and called
Squirries. The house stands on a small eminence with respect to the
front; but on the back of the edifice the ground rises very high, and
is divided into several steep slopes; near the house are some woods,
through which are cut several ridings. On the other side the hill
behind the house arise nine springs, which, uniting their streams, form
the river Dart, or Darent.


WEST HAM, a pleasant village, about a mile from Stratford in the Essex
Road; thus named from another Ham on the east called East Ham. Here are
the country houses of several wealthy citizens.


WEST HARDING _street_, Fetter lane, Fleet street.


WEST _lane_, Rotherhith wall.


WEST _lane stairs_, Rotherhith.


WESTMINSTER, had its name from its abbey or minster situated to the
westward of the city of London; which according to several modern
historians was thus denominated to distinguish it from the Abbey of
Grace on Tower Hill, called Eastminster: but Maitland proves this to
be a mistake, by shewing that the former is called Westminster in a
charter of sanctuary granted by Edward the Confessor in the year 1066,
and that the latter was not founded till 1359; he therefore supposes
that the appellation of Westminster was given to distinguish it from
St. Paul’s church in the city of London. In early times, this noble
part of the great metropolis of the kingdom, was a little, mean,
unhealthy place, with nothing worthy of notice but its minster or
abbey, situated in a marshy island, surrounded on one side by the
Thames, and on the others by what was called Long ditch; a branch of
the river which began near the east end of the place, where Manchester
court is now situated, intersected King street, and running along where
Gardener’s lane now is, to the place called from thence Long ditch,
crossed Tothill street, a little to the west of the Gatehouse, and
continued its course along the south wall of the abbey garden, where a
common sewer is erected over it. The island thus formed was in a manner
a waste over grown with thorns and briars, and was thence called Thorny
Island.

In this situation was the abbey, minster, or monastery founded; for
the convenience of which a few houses were probably first erected, and
these at length grew into a small town, in ancient books called the
town of Westminster.

It was thus for many ages a place entirely distinct from London, and
there was a large space between them. The Strand was the road which led
from London to that town, and it was open on either side to the Thames
and to the fields. In 1385 we find that this road was paved as far
as the Savoy; and many years after Sir Robert Cecil building a house
at Ivy bridge, his interest brought the pavement of the road to be
extended thither; and many of the houses of the nobility were erected
in the Strand.

Westminster owed its most distinguished privileges to Henry VIII. for
in the 37th year of his reign an act was passed to authorize him by
either letters patent or proclamation, to make it an honour, a title
of distinction which he was impowered by the same act to confer upon
Kingston upon Hull, St. Osyth’s in Essex, and Donnington in Berkshire;
and after the dissolution of the monastery, he converted it into a
bishoprick, in the year 1541, with a dean and twelve prebendaries,
and appointed the whole county of Middlesex, except Fulham, which was
still to belong to the bishoprick of London, as its diocese. Upon
this occasion Westminster became a city, for the making of which,
according to the Lord Chief Justice Coke, nothing more is required
than the appellation of a bishop’s see. It had many years before been
the seat of the royal palace, the high court of parliament, and of
our law tribunals; most of our Sovereigns had been crowned, and had
their sepulchres in the abbey church, and the ancient palace, being
almost destroyed by fire, the last mentioned Prince had here his palace
of Whitehall, which he purchased of Cardinal Wolsey. He also built
the palace of St. James’s, inclosed a fine spot of ground which he
converted into a park, for the accommodation of both palaces, and this
was no sooner finished, than he erected the stately gate lately near
the banquetting house, and added to it a magnificent gallery for the
accommodation of the royal family, the nobility and gentry, to sit in,
in order to see the justings and other military exercises in the tilt
yard; and soon after the same Prince erected, contiguous to the said
gate, a tennis-court, cock-pit, and places for bowling.

From that time the buildings about Westminster began to extend on every
side; though it did not long enjoy the honour of being a city, and even
the palace was some time after burnt; for it never had but one bishop,
and he being translated to the see of Norwich, by Edward VI. in 1550,
the new bishoprick was dissolved by that Prince; and its right to the
epithet of city was thereby lost, though by public complaisance it has
retained that name ever since: but yet Westminster had not any arms
till the year 1601. For a more particular account of the antiquities of
Westminster, see the articles ABBEY, WESTMINSTER HALL, WHITEHALL, _&c._

The city of Westminster at present consists but of two parishes, St.
Margaret’s and St. John the Evangelist; but the liberties contain seven
parishes, which are as follow: St. Martin’s in the fields, St. James’s,
St. Anne’s, St. Paul’s Covent Garden, St. Mary le Strand, St. Clement’s
Danes, and St. George’s Hanover square; and the precinct of the Savoy.
Each of the above parishes is of such a prodigious extent, considering
the number of houses they contain; that it would be impossible for one
tenth part of the inhabitants to attend divine worship at one and the
same time, there are therefore many chapels of ease for the convenience
of those who could not be so well accommodated in their parish churches.

The government of both the city and liberties are under the
jurisdiction of the dean and chapter of Westminster, in civil as well
as ecclesiastical affairs, and their authority also extends to the
precinct of St. Martin’s le Grand, by Newgate street, and in some towns
of Essex, that are exempted from the jurisdiction of the Bishop of
London, and the Archbishopric of Canterbury: but the management of the
civil part has ever since the reformation been in the hands of laymen,
elected from time to time, and confirmed by the dean and chapter.

Of these magistrates, the principal is the High Steward, who is usually
one of the prime nobility: this great officer is chosen by the dean and
chapter; his post is not unlike that of chancellor of an University,
and he holds it during life: but upon his death or resignation, a
chapter is called for the election of another, in which the dean sits
as high steward, till the election be over.

The next great officer is the Deputy Steward, who is chosen by the
high steward, and confirmed by the dean and chapter. This officer, who
also holds his post during life, supplies the place of a sheriff, for
he keeps the court leet, with the other magistrates, and is always
chairman at the quarter sessions.

The High Bailiff, who is the next in rank, is nominated by the dean,
and confirmed by the high steward. He likewise holds his office for
life, and has the chief management in the election of members of
parliament for Westminster, and all the other bailiffs are subordinate
to him. He summons juries, and in the court leet sits next to the
deputy steward. To him all fines, forfeitures and strays belong, which
renders his place very beneficial; but it is commonly executed by a
deputy well versed in the laws.

There are also sixteen burgesses and their assistants, whose office in
all respects resembles that of the Aldermen’s deputies of the city of
London, each having his proper ward under his jurisdiction; and out of
these are elected two head burgesses, one for the city, and the other
for the liberties, who take place in the court leet, next to the head
bailiff.

There is also a High Constable, who is also chosen by the court leet,
and has all the other constables under his direction.

Thus the government of Westminster has but little resemblance to
that of an opulent and noble city; it being much more like that of
a little country borough, since its representatives are chosen by
its householders, and it has not the power of making freemen; has no
trading companies; nor any other courts, besides those of the leet, the
sessions, and a court of requests lately erected, and yet, according
to Maitland, it contains 15,445 houses; many of which are laid out in
handsome streets and squares, and pays annually 11,870_l._ 8_s._ 9_d._ on
account of the church; and 20,723_l._ 17_s._ 3_d._ on account of the poor.

Besides the above officers, there are in Westminster, and its
liberties, 52 inquestmen, 12 surveyors of the highways, 55 constables,
31 beadles, 236 watch-men, and 80 scavengers, who pay to the rakers
4127_l._ _per annum_ for cleaning the streets.


WESTMINSTER BRIDGE. The horse-ferry at Westminster was perhaps one of
the most frequented passages over the river of Thames, ever since the
building of London Bridge, and laying aside the ancient ferry there.
From the multitude of coaches, carriages and horses continually passing
and repassing at all hours, times, and seasons, many inconveniences
and accidents unavoidably happened, and in a course of time many lives
were lost. To prevent these inconveniences and dangers the Archbishop
of Canterbury and several other noblemen, in the year 1736, procured
an act of parliament for building a bridge across the Thames, from New
Palace yard, to the opposite shore in the county of Surry: but this act
was not obtained without great opposition from the people of London and
Southwark, and some fainter efforts used by the bargemen and watermen
of the Thames; but private interest was obliged to give way to the
public advantage, and preparations were made for carrying on this great
work under the sanction of the legislature.

At length the ballastmen of Trinity house were employed to open a large
hole for the foundation of the first pier to the depth of five feet
under the bed of the river, and this being finished and levelled at the
bottom, it was kept to a level by a proper inclosure of strong piles.
Mean while, a strong case of oak, secured and strengthened with large
beams, was prepared of the form and dimensions of the intended pier in
the clear; this was made water proof and being brought over the place,
was secured within the piles.

In this wooden case the first stone was laid on the 29th of January,
1738–9, by the late Earl of Pembroke; the case of boards was above
the high-water mark, and it sinking gradually by the weight of the
prodigious blocks of stone strongly cemented to its bottom, the men
continued to work as on dry ground, though at a great depth under
water. Thus the western middle pier was first formed, and in the same
manner were all the other piers erected, and when finished, the planks
on the sides being taken off, the stone work appeared entire. The
superstructure was added in the common method, and the whole finished
in the most neat and elegant manner, and with such simplicity and
grandeur, that whether viewed from the water, or more closely examined
by the passenger who goes over it, it fills the mind with an agreeable
surprise.

This bridge is universally allowed to be one of the finest in the
world. It is adorned and secured on each side by a very lofty and noble
balustrade, there are recesses over every pier, which is a semioctogan.
Twelve of them are covered with half domes, _viz._, four at each end,
and four in the middle. Between these in the middle are pedestals on
which was intended a group of figures; this would greatly add to the
magnificence by making the centre more principal (which it ought to be)
and giving it an air of magnificence and grandeur suitable to the city
to which it belongs; a great number of lamps are so agreeably disposed
on the top of the recesses as at once to contribute to the purposes of
use and beauty. This magnificent structure is 1223 feet in length, and
above three hundred feet longer than London Bridge. The ascent at the
top is extremely well managed, and the room allowed for passengers,
consists of a commodious foot way seven feet broad on each side, paved
with broad Moor stone, and raised above the road allowed for carriages.
This last is thirty feet wide, and is sufficient to admit the passage
of three carriages and two horses on a breast, without the least danger.

The construction and distance of the piers from each other are so
managed, that the vacancies under the arches allowed for the water-way,
are four times as much as at London Bridge, and in consequence of this,
there is no fall, nor can the least danger arrive to boats in passing
through the arches. The piers, which are fourteen, have thirteen large
and two small arches, all semicircular. These with two abutments
constitute the bridge, whose strength is not inferior to its elegance.

The length of every pier is seventy feet, and each end is terminated
with a saliant angle against either stream. The breadth of the two
middle piers is seventeen feet at the springing of the arches, and
contain three thousand cubic feet, or near two hundred tons of solid
stone; and the others on each side, regularly decrease one foot in
breadth, so that the two next to the largest are each sixteen feet, and
so on to the two least next the sides, which are no more than twelve
feet wide at the springing of the arches.

The centre arch is seventy-six feet wide, and the others decrease in
width four feet on each side, so that the two next to the centre arch
are seventy-two feet wide, and so on to the least of the large arches,
which are each fifty-two feet wide, and the two small ones in the
abutments close to the shore, are about twenty feet in width.

The foundation of the bridge is laid on a solid and firm mass of gravel
which lies at the bottom of the bed of the river; but at a much greater
depth on the Surry, than the Westminster side; and this inequality
of the ground, required the heights of the several piers to be very
different; as some have their foundations laid at five feet, and others
at fourteen feet under the bed of the river. The piers are all four
feet wider at their foundation than at the top, and are founded on
the bottoms of the above mentioned wooden cases formed of the most
substantial work, eighty feet in length, twenty-eight in breadth, and
these timbers are two feet in thickness. The caisson or wooden case, in
which the first pier was built, contained an hundred and fifty loads of
timber; and forty thousand pound weight is computed to be always under
water in stone and timber.

[Illustration:
               _Westminster Bridge._ ]

[Illustration:
    _S. Wale delin._      _B. Green sc. Oxon._
                _Walton Bridge._]

The materials are much superior to those commonly used on such
occasions: the inside is usually filled up with chalk, small stones, or
rubbish; but here all the piers are the same on the inside as without,
of solid blocks of Portland stone, many of which are four or five
tons weight, and none less than a ton, except the closers, or smaller
ones, intended for fastening the others, one of which has its place
between every four of the large ones. These vast blocks are perfectly
well wrought for uniting; they are laid in Dutch terrace, and also
fastened together with iron cramps run in with lead. All this iron work
is however entirely concealed, and so placed that none of them can be
affected by the water.

It is also worthy of remark, that the soffit of every arch is turned
and built quite through with blocks of Portland stone, over which
is built and bonded in with it, another arch of Purbeck stone, four
or five times thicker on the reins than over the key; and by this
secondary arch, together with the incumbent load of materials, all the
parts of every arch are in equilibrio, and the whole weight so happily
adjusted, that each arch can stand single, without affecting, or being
affected by the other arches. In short, between every two arches a
drain is contrived to carry off the water and filth, that might in time
penetrate and accumulate in those places, to the great detriment of the
arches.

Though the greatest care was taken in laying the foundation deep in
the gravel, and using every probable method to prevent the sinking
of the piers, yet all this was in some degree ineffectual, for one
of them sunk so considerably when the work was very near compleated,
as to retard the finishing it a considerable time. This gave the
highest satisfaction to those who had opposed this noble work: but the
commissioners for building the bridge, immediately ordered the arch
supported by that pier, on the side where it had sunk, to be taken
down, and then caused the base of the pier to be loaded with incredible
weights, till all the settlement that could be forced was made. After
this the arch was rebuilt, and has ever since been as secure as the
rest.

In short the last stone was laid in November 1747, eleven years and
nine months from the beginning of the construction; a very short
period, considering the vastness of the undertaking, the prodigious
quantity of stone made use of, hewn out of the quarry, and brought by
sea; the interruptions of winter, the damage frequently done by the
ice to the piles and scaffolding, and the unavoidable interruptions
occasioned twice a day by the tide, which for two years together,
reduced the time of labour to only five hours a day. The expence of
erecting this bridge, and of procuring all the requisite conveniences
was defrayed by parliament, and amounted to 389,000_l._ which was raised
by several lotteries.

This bridge, considered in itself, is not only a great ornament to
this metropolis, and of the most singular advantage to the city of
Westminster; but it has entirely changed the appearance of that city;
new and beautiful streets have been erected; those that were before
narrow, crooked and ill built, have been widened, rendered straight and
rebuilt with regularity and elegance. And new plans of improvement are
daily formed, and continually putting in execution.


WESTMINSTER FIRE OFFICE, in Bedford street, Covent Garden, was
originally kept at Tom’s coffee-house, in St. Martin’s lane; the deed
of settlement was executed on the 13th of February, 1717, and two days
after was inrolled in the high court of chancery. _Maitland._

This office was erected for insuring only houses from fire, and,
like the Hand-in-Hand fire office, is a joint copartnership, every
one insuring becoming an equal sharer in the profits and loss, in
proportion to his or her respective insurance.

The conditions of insurance are,

I. No house is insured at more than 2000_l._ but such sums of money as
the directors, or any three or more of them shall think proper, may
be insured upon the wing or wings of any house, having a brick wall
between the wings and the body of the house, by a separate policy;
provided such sum do not exceed three fourths of the value of the wings.

II. New houses may be insured when tiled in; but not at more than two
thirds of their value.

III. The limits of insurance in this office extend to twenty-five miles
distance from it; but the proprietors of all houses that are five
miles, or a greater distance, are to defray the charge of the surveyor
and messenger’s journey, to survey the premises, and set up the mark;
and also to defray the charge of the director’s journey to estimate
a damage, when and after such loss happens, and the directors are
impowered to deduct the charges out of the money due on such loss.

IV. All whose houses are insured pay 12_s._ deposit and 4_s._ _per cent._
premium, on all brick houses, and double for all timber buildings; as
a pledge for the performance of their covenants, to be returned at the
expiration of their policies, with the yearly dividends of profits,
incident charges and contribution to losses first deducted. Persons
paying for each policy, besides the stamps; 4_d._ for all houses within,
and 1_s._ without the bills of mortality.

V. Each policy is to contain but one house, unless where two, three or
more small houses stand together, in which case 500_l._ may be insured
upon them, each being distinctly valued.

VI. Every insurance is for seven years; and such insurance is to
continue in force till six o’clock of the evening of that day seven
years, on which the same is dated; and in the mean time such insurers
property in the premises insured ceases, when such insurer or legal
representative, may receive the return of deposit due upon the
respective policy or policies, the same being delivered up to the
office to be cancelled. But the deposit-money on policies expired,
not demanded within two years after, is sunk to the society, and all
policies either new or to be renewed, directed to be made out and not
taken away in three months after, are cancelled. The earned money paid
for such new policies is sunk; and the stamp and charge of such renewed
policies are deducted out of every insurer’s deposit-money.

VII. Every house that is by reason of fire destroyed from the first
floor upwards, is deemed as demolished, and the directors are impowered
either to pay the money insured thereon within sixty days after
notice given to them at their office, or to rebuild the same with all
convenient speed; but no more than 30_l._ is allowed for any chimney
piece destroyed by fire; and gilding, history, painting and carving are
excepted from the insurance.

VIII. Every member, upon any loss, is to certify the same to the
directors within thirty days after such loss happened, that skilful
persons may view and report the same, and a rate of contributions be
made thereon; otherwise the society is not obliged to make good such
losses.

IX. Every member neglecting to pay his rate towards any loss for
twenty-five days after publication in the Gazette, or otherwise,
forfeits double the said rates; and neglecting to pay these forfeits,
for five days more, forfeits all his right and deposit-money, and may
be excluded by the directors from the society, and the benefit of his
insurance; his covenant nevertheless, to abide in force.

X. Contributions to losses are dated annually, and every person
insuring in the same year contributes in proportion to his insurance,
to the losses, and receives a dividend of the profits of that year,
arising from interest, _&c._ also in proportion to the sum insured.
Every year’s account commencing on the first of October, and ending on
the 30th of September following: but the contribution of no member is
to be charged above 10_s._ _per cent._ for brick, and double for timber
houses.

XI. If any house is insured in any other office at the same time it is
insured in this such insurance is void.

XII. Twenty-four firemen are employed by this office in extinguishing
fires, all of whom are cloathed by the office, and have badges bearing
the mark of the office, which is a portcullis, crowned with the Prince
of Wales’s coronet. _Settlement of the Westminster contributionship._


WESTMINSTER HALL, was first built by William Rufus, as an addition to
the palace of Westminster, and that Prince at his return from Normandy
kept the high festival of Christmas in this room, which for several
reigns was used for great feasts, whenever our Kings entertained
in a splendid manner the nobility and clergy: of this we find many
instances; but what appears most remarkable, King Henry III. on New
Year’s Day 1236, gave a public entertainment to 6000 poor men, women
and children in this hall and the other rooms of the palace.

[Illustration:
    _S. Wale delin._      _J. Green sc. Oxon._
             _Westminster Hall._]

At length this great hall becoming very ruinous, it was rebuilt by
Richard II. in the year 1397, as it at present appears, together with
the buildings on the east and west sides; and it was no sooner finished
than it received the appellation of the new palace, to distinguish it
from the old palace, where the house of Lords and Commons at present
assemble.

In the year 1399, the King kept his Christmas here, during which time
10000 persons were plentifully entertained in this spacious hall, and
the other rooms of the palace; for whose supply were daily killed
about eighty oxen, and three hundred sheep, besides a vast number of
fowls. It is still used for our coronation feasts; and for the three
great courts of justice, the chancery, king’s bench, and common pleas,
besides the court of exchequer which adjoins to it.

The front of this hall is extremely narrow, it is built with stone
in the gothic taste, with a tower on each side the entrance, adorned
with abundance of carved work. The print represents this front. The
hall itself is esteemed the largest room in Europe unsupported by
pillars, it being 270 feet in length and 74 broad. The roof is admired
for the excellence of the workmanship, and the sides contain a number
of shops belonging to booksellers, _&c._ It is paved with stone, and
to the courts of justice at the end is an assent by a flight of steps.
The inside is most remarkable for being so wide and having no columns
to support a roof so large. It is a regular Gothic, and gives us a good
idea of the skill in architecture of our fore fathers so early as the
time of Richard II.


WESTMINSTER HALL _court_, Dunning’s alley, Bishopsgate street.


WESTMINSTER INFIRMARY, a plain neat building in James street, by Petty
France, Westminster; founded for the relief of the sick, and of those
who suffer by any of the unavoidable accidents to which the human frame
is always liable. This charitable and noble foundation was first set on
foot on the second of December, 1719, when the subscription was first
opened, and trustees appointed. Benefactions were soon procured, and
several of the most eminent Physicians and Surgeons not only became
subscribers, but generously offered their assistance gratis. About the
beginning of April 1720, a house was taken in Petty France, and fitted
up with all the necessary accommodations for an infirmary; but it being
soon found too small to contain the number of miserable objects brought
thither, they four years after were removed to a larger house in Chapel
street, where they continued till the present edifice in James street
was erected.

The standing orders of this noble charity are as follow.

I. All persons who shall subscribe 2_l._ 2_s._ or more _per annum_, are
trustees of this charity: but any trustee or subscriber neglecting to
pay his subscription for the space of two years, is no longer deemed
a trustee or subscriber, or to have any vote or privilege till his
arrears are paid.

II. Every person giving a benefaction of 30_l._ or upwards, immediately
becomes a trustee.

III. Every person who, by will, bequeaths a legacy of 50_l._ or upwards,
may nominate another person, who, immediately after payment of the said
legacy, is deemed a trustee.

IV. Each trustee may have one in-patient and one out-patient at a time;
every person who becomes a subscriber of 2_l._ 2_s._ _per annum_,
may have two in-patients and four out-patients in a year, and every
person who becomes a subscriber of 1_l._ 1_s._ _per annum_, may have
one in-patient and two out-patients in a year; but the treasurer,
physicians, and surgeons, may have each two in-patients and two
out-patients at a time, or four out-patients.

V. No person is to act as a trustee during the time that he, or any
other person for his benefit, is employed as a tradesman, or appointed
to work for, or supply the charity with provisions, or any other
commodity, nor for the space of six months after his having been so
employed.

VI. No person who has the venereal disease is to be admitted as a
patient: And if any such person shall obtain admission under pretence
of some other distemper; he or she, upon the discovery, is to be
immediately discharged.

VII. Four quarterly general boards are held every year; and the weekly
board, on the Wednesday after each quarter-day, is to appoint such
quarterly board, within forty days after each quarter-day, and to
nominate a committee of three, five, or more trustees, to prepare the
business to be laid before such board.

VIII. The weekly board may, as often as they see occasion, appoint
special general boards to be held (during the intervals between the
quarterly general boards;) and may call a special general board when
required by any seven trustees; giving notice in the summons of the
occasion of calling such special board.

IX. If a ballot be demanded by three or more trustees at any quarterly
or special general board, the chairman is to appoint a special general
board for taking the same, at any time after fourteen days, and not
exceeding twenty-one days, from the demand of such ballot; which is
to begin at eleven o’clock in the forenoon, and be closed at two in
the afternoon: And notice of such ballot, and the question on which it
was demanded, is to be given to the trustees in the summons, and be
advertised in some of the public papers.

X. All general boards are to consist of at least thirteen trustees.

XI. No standing order of this society is to be repealed, or altered, or
any new one be in force, without the approbation of two general boards.

XII. The treasurer is chosen annually at the first general board after
the general audit, proposed to the weekly board three weeks before his
election.

XIII. The accounts of this society are to be annually closed upon the
31st of December.

XIV. All bonds, or other securities, for money belonging to the
society, are secured in an iron chest under three different keys, kept
by the vice-president and treasurer for the time being, and a third
person nominated by a general board.

XV. The physicians, surgeons, apothecary, clerk, and matron, are
appointed by the general board; and no addition is to be made to the
salary of the apothecary, clerk, or matron, or any gratuity given
them, without the consent of a general board. The inferior servants
of the house, and tradesmen to be employed, are also appointed by the
weekly board: And any gentleman may be candidate for physician, who has
been educated, and taken his degrees in physick, in any university,
or is a fellow or member of a college of physicians, in Great Britain
or Ireland. A general board is to appoint the day for election of a
treasurer, physician, surgeon, apothecary, clerk, or matron; and the
first weekly board is to appoint a special general board to declare
such vacancy by death or resignation; and in the mean time, the weekly
board is impowered, in case of necessity, to employ such person or
persons to officiate as treasurer, physicians, surgeons, apothecary,
clerk, or matron, as occasion requires, till a proper person is chosen
by a general board.

XVI. When any extraordinary operation in surgery is to be performed,
all surgeons, who are trustees, have liberty to attend.

XVII. Pursuant to the will of a considerable benefactor to this
charity, none but Protestants are at any time to be admitted into any
service or employ in or about this infirmary.

XVIII. A weekly board, consisting of as many trustees as please to
attend, meet at the infirmary every Wednesday; and have power, from
time to time, to make such rules, and give such instructions and
orders, as they find necessary for the immediate direction of the
several officers, servants, and others, employed in this charity; for
the admitting or dismissing of patients; and regulating every thing
relating to the good management of the house: But no new order of the
weekly board is to be of force (if objected to by any two trustees
present,) till it be approved of by the majority at the next weekly
board.

XIX. Two trustees are nominated every Wednesday, by the weekly board,
to be visitors for the ensuing week, who are to attend daily, and
inquire into the behaviour of the officers, servants, and patients, the
quantity and quality of the provisions, and every thing relating to the
oeconomy of the house; and these visitors have power to suspend any
servant for misbehaviour, and to reject such provisions as they shall
find deficient or improper, and provide others in their room, till they
have made their report to the next weekly board.

XX. All questions at every board and committee are decided by the
votes of the majority of the trustees present, and of the proxies for
the ladies who are trustees, such proxy being given in writing to
some person who is a trustee, and being entered in a book to be kept
for that purpose by the secretary. And the minutes of each board and
committee are to be signed by the respective chairmen.

XXI. It having been resolved that all subscriptions to this hospital
are payable in advance, upon the respective quarter days for the year
then to come; letters, signed by the chairman of every quarterly
general board, are to be sent to each subscriber whose subscription
shall then appear to have been three months due, according to the
foregoing resolution, to remind him of such arrear, and to request the
payment of it. _From the orders published by the general board._


WESTMINSTER _market_, a very convenient and handsome market in King
street.


WESTMINSTER _school_, or Queen’s college, Westminster, was founded by
Queen Elizabeth, in the year 1590, for the education of forty boys, who
are taught classical learning, and in the best manner prepared for the
university. Besides whom, a great number of the sons of the nobility
and gentry are educated there, which has rendered it one of the
greatest schools in the kingdom. Instead of one master, and an usher,
as at first; there are now an upper and under master, and five ushers,
who have about 400 young gentlemen under their tuition. _Maitland._


WESTMORELAND _court_, 1. Bartholomew close, so called from the mansion
of the Earls of Westmoreland, formerly situated there: 2. Noble street,
Foster lane.


WESTON’S _rents_, Houndsditch.†


WEST’S _gardens_, New Gravel lane.†


WEST SIDE _alley_, near Tooley street, Southwark.


WEST SMITHFIELD. See the article SMITHFIELD. The epithet West is never
used but to distinguish it from East Smithfield.


WEST _street_, 1. Soho: 2. Spitalfields market.


WEYBRIDGE, a village in Surry, four miles south-west of Hampton Court,
took its name from a bridge formerly erected here over the river Wey.
About this village are several fine seats, particularly those of
the Earls of Portmore and Lincoln. The former was beautified by the
Countess of Dorchester, in the reign of King James II. and has a fine
walk of acacia trees, which when first planted were esteemed great
curiosities. Among the advantages of the other, is a noble terrace
walk, raised so high above the neighbouring ground, as to afford a fine
prospect of the country and the river. For some farther account of both
these seats. See OATLANDS and HAM FARM.


WHALEBONE _court_, 1. Bow lane, Cheapside: 2. Little Old Bailey: 3.
Lothbury: 4. Throgmorton street.


WHARTON’S _court_, 1. Church-yard alley.† 2. Holbourn.† 3. Lambeth
or Lambert hill, Thames street.†


WHARTON’S _rents_, New Gravel lane.†


WHEATSHEAF _alley_, 1. Barnaby street, Southwark.* 2. Lambeth.* 3.
Michael’s lane, Thames street.*


WHEEL _yard_, Stony lane.


WHEELBARROW _alley_, Rosemary lane.


WHEELER _street_, Lamb street, Spitalfields.


WHEELER’S _alley_, Old street.†


WHEELER’S _lane_, St. Olave street, Southwark.†


WHEELER’S _yard_, Redcross street, Barbican.† 2. Wheeler’s lane,
Southwark.†


WHEELWRIGHTS, a company incorporated by letters patent granted by King
Charles II. in the year 1670, and governed by a master, two wardens,
and twenty-two assistants; but they have neither hall nor livery.


WHEELWRIGHT _yard_, Nightingale lane.†


WHETSTER’S _ground_, 1. Millbank, Westminster.† 2. Peter street.†


WHETSTON’S _park_, Lincoln’s Inn fields.†


WHISTLER’S _court_, Salter’s Hall court, St. Swithin’s lane.†


WHITCHER’S _almshouse_, situated at Tothill side, Westminster, was
founded by Mr. George Whitcher, in the year 1683, for six poor old
people, each of whom are allowed the annual sum of 5_l._ and a gown.
_Maitland._


WHITCOMB’S _alley_, Great Queen street.†


WHITCOMB’S _court_, Hedge lane, Charing Cross.†


WHITCOMB’S _street_, Hedge lane.†


WHITE BALL _court_, Castle street.*


WHITE BEAR _alley_, 1. Kent street, Southwark.* 2. Addle hill.* 3.
Redcross street.* 4. Rosemary lane, Little Tower Hill.* 5. Whitechapel.*


WHITE BEAR _court_, Addle hill.*


WHITE BEAR _yard_, Holiwell street.*


WHITECHAPEL, a long and broad street which extends from the north-east
corner of the Minories, to near Mile-end. It derived its name from St.
Mary’s church, which was originally a chapel of ease to St. Dunstan’s
Stepney, and from its whiteness called the White chapel.


WHITECHAPEL _bars_, a little to the west of Whitechapel church, placed
where the liberties of the city end.


WHITECHAPEL _common_, Mile-end.


WHITECHAPEL _court_, is a court of record belonging to Stepney manor;
wherein the steward of the manor tries actions for any sum, as well as
of damage, trespass, _&c._


WHITECHAPEL _field gate_, Whitechapel.


WHITECHAPEL _market_, a considerable flesh market consisting only of a
range of butchers shops on the south side of the street, near the west
end.


WHITECHAPEL _school_, was founded by Mr. Ralph Davenant, rector of
the parish of St. Mary Whitechapel, by Mary, his wife, and Sarah, her
sister, in the year 1680: and this foundation being greatly augmented
by the charitable benefaction of 1000_l._ given in the year 1721, by a
person unknown, a master receives a salary of 30_l._ _per annum_ for
teaching of sixty boys, as does a mistress 20_l._ for instructing forty
girls. _Maitland._


WHITE COCK _alley_, Thames street.*


WHITE _court_, Peter lane.


WHITECROSS _alley_, Moorfields.


WHITECROSS _street_, Fore street, Cripplegate, so named from a white
cross which anciently stood at the upper end of it: 2. Queen street,
Southwark: 3. Spitalfields, these last had probably their name from the
same original.


WHITE FRIARS, a number of lanes, alleys, and passages extending from
the west side of Water lane to the Temple; and from Fleet street to
the Thames. It took its name from the White Friars, or Carmelites, who
had their house in this place next to Fleet street, and their garden
probably extended from thence to the water side. They were cloathed
in white, and having made a vow of poverty lived by begging. Their
convent was founded by Sir Richard Gray, Knt. ancestor to the Lord Gray
of Codnor in Derbyshire in the year 1241, and was afterwards rebuilt
by Hugh Courtney, Earl of Devonshire, about the year 1350. In the
conventual church were interred many persons of distinction.

This convent and its church were surrendered to Henry VIII. in the
thirtieth year of his reign, when they were valued at no more than 26
_l._ 7_s._ 3_d._ and being soon after pulled down, other houses were
built in their room. _Maitland._

In the year 1608, the inhabitants obtained several liberties,
privileges and exemptions by a charter granted them by King James I.
and this rendered the place an asylum for insolvent debtors, cheats,
and gamesters, who gave to this district the name of Alsatia: but the
inconveniences the city suffered from this place of refuge, and the
riotous proceedings carried on there, at length induced the legislature
to interpose; and to deprive them of privileges so pernicious to the
community.


WHITE FRIARS _dock_, White Friars.


WHITE FRIARS _stairs_, White Friars.


WHITEHALL, a palace originally built by Hubert de Burgh, Earl of Kent,
who in the year 1243, bequeathed it to the Black Friars in Chancery
lane, Holbourn, in whose church he was interred. But in 1248, these
friars having disposed of it to Walter de Grey, Archbishop of York, he
left it to his successors, the Archbishops of that see, for their city
mansion, and hence it obtained the name of York place. However, the
royal palace at Westminster suffering greatly by fire in the reign of
Henry VIII. and that Prince having a great inclination for York place,
purchased it of Cardinal Wolsey, in the year 1530.

Henry had no sooner obtained the possession of this palace than he
enclosed the park for the accommodation of both palaces, and built
the beautiful gate opposite the banqueting house (which has been
lately pulled down) to which he added a magnificent gallery, for the
accommodation of the Royal Family, the nobility and great officers
of state; for there they sat to see the tournaments performed in
the tiltyard; and soon after the King, who had a greater taste for
pleasure, than for elegance of building, ordered a tennis-court,
a cock-pit, and bowling greens to be formed, with other places for
different kinds of diversion.

From this time Whitehall continued the royal residence of the
Sovereigns of England; and Hentzner in his _Itinerarium_ says it was a
structure truly royal: and it was furnished in a peculiar manner.

“Near this palace, says he, are seen an immense number of swans, who
wander up and down the river for some miles, in great security; no body
daring to molest, much less to kill any of them, under the penalty of a
considerable fine.

In the palace is a library, well stored with Greek, Latin, Italian
and French books; and among the rest, a small one in French, upon
parchment, in the hand writing of the present Queen Elizabeth thus
inscribed:

  _A tres haut & tres puissant & redoubtè
  Prince Henry_ VIII. _de ce nom, Roy
  d’Angleterre, de France, & d’Irelande,
  defenseur de la foy_:

  _Elisabeth sa tres humble fille rend
            salut & obedience._

In English thus:

    To the most high, puissant, and redoubted
  Prince, Henry VIII. of the
  name, King of England, France and
  Ireland, defender of the faith:

  Elizabeth, his most humble daughter,
         health and obedience.

  All these books are bound in velvet of
  different colours, though chiefly red,
  with clasps of gold and silver; some
  have pearls, and precious stones, set in
  their bindings.

  II. Two little silver cabinets of exquisite
  work, in which the Queen keeps
  her paper, and which she uses for
  writing boxes.

  III. The Queen’s bed; ingeniously
  composed of woods of different colours,
  with quilts of silk, velvet, gold, silver,
  and embroidery.

  IV. A little chest ornamented all
  over with pearls, in which the Queen
  keeps her bracelets, ear-rings, and
  other things of extraordinary value.

  V. Christ’s passion in painted glass.

  VI. Portraits: among which are
  Queen Elizabeth at sixteen years of age.
  Henry, Richard, Edward, Kings of
  England; Rosamond, Lucrece, a Grecian
  bride, in her nuptial habit; the
  genealogy of the Kings of England;
  a picture of King Edward VI. representing
  at first sight something quite deformed,
  till by looking through a small
  hole in the cover, which is put over
  it, you see it in its true proportions;
  the Emperor Charles V. Charles Emanuel
  Duke of Savoy, and Catharine of
  Spain, his wife; Ferdinand Duke of
  Florence, with his daughters; one of
  Philip King of Spain, when he came
  into England, and married Mary;
  Henry VII. Henry VIII. and his mother;
  besides many more of illustrious
  men and women; and a picture of the
  siege of Malta.

  VII. A small hermitage, half hid
  in a rock, finely carved in wood.

  VIII. Variety of emblems, on paper,
  cut in the shape of shields, with mottoes
  used by the nobility at tilts and
  tournaments, hung up here for a memorial.

  IX. Different instruments of music,
  upon one of which two persons may
  perform at the same time.

  X. A piece of clock-work, an Æthiop
  riding upon a rhinoceros, with
  four attendants, who all make their
  obeisance, when it strikes the hour;
  these are all put into motion by winding
  up the machine.”

In short, at the entrance into the park, from Whitehall, was this
romantic inscription, which the honourable Horatio Walpole supposes
might allude to Philip II. who wooed the Queen after her sister’s
death, and to the destruction of his armada.

        _Ictus piscator tandem sapit,_
      _Sed infelix Actæon semper præceps._
        _Casta virgo facilè miseretur;_
      _Sed potens Dea scelus ulciscitur._
    _Præda canibus, exemplum juvenibus,_
        _Suis dedecus, pereat Actæon._
  _Cura cœlitibus, chara mortatibus, suis securitas,_
                      _Vivat Diana._

Thus englished:

  The fisherman who has been wounded, learns,
    though late, to beware;
  But the unfortunate Actæon always presses on.
    The chaste virgin naturally pitied;
  But the powerful goddess revenged the wrong.
    Let Actæon fall a prey to his dogs,
            An example to youth,
    A disgrace to those that belong to him!
    May Diana live the care of heaven;
            The delight of mortals;
    The security of those that belong to her!

    _Hentzner’s journey into England._

But to proceed, in the reign of King James I. the old banquetting
house, which was then used for public entertainments, being much
decayed, that Prince formed the design of pulling down the whole palace
of Whitehall, and erecting in its room an edifice worthy the Kings
of England: a most noble plan was actually drawn for that purpose,
by the celebrated Inigo Jones, and this plan being finished, the old
banquetting house was demolished, and the present elegant structure
erected in its room. This was to have been but a small part of the
intended work; but it was all that was performed; and the old palace
continued still the residence of our Kings, till it was destroyed
by fire in 1697: and has never yet been rebuilt. See the article
BANQUETTING HOUSE.

[Illustration:
            _S. Wale delin._      _E. Booker sc._
    _A Gate belonging to the Old palace of White Hall._]

As this was esteemed the principal palace, and that of St. James’s only
an additional, though there have been long no remains of it left, and
there are several houses of the nobility and other buildings scattered
about the place where it stood, it is still considered in the same
light; the great offices are kept in some of these detached edifices,
and all public business is still dated from Whitehall.


WHITEHALL _gate_. The gate here represented and the house adjoining
have since the engraving this print been pulled down to render the
street more spacious and convenient. It belonged, as was observed in
the preceding article, to the old palace of Whitehall, and was built
by Henry VIII. from a design of Hans Holbein the celebrated painter.
Here were on each side four bustos in front with ornamented mouldings
round them of baked clay in proper colours, and glazed in the manner of
delf ware, which has preserved them intire to this time, whereas the
festoons of stone in the banquetting house, which was built much later,
are so corroded as to be scarce intelligible.


WHITEHALL _stairs_, Whitehall.


WHITE HART _alley_, Leadenhall street.*


WHITE HART _buildings_, the corner of Drury lane.*


WHITE HART _court_, 1. Barnaby street*: 2. Bishopsgate street without.*
3. Broad street.* 4. Castle street, Leicester Fields.* 5. Cat alley,
Long lane, Smithfield.* 6. Leadenhall street.* 7. Old street.* 8.
Whitechapel.*


WHITE HART _inn yard_, in the Borough.*


WHITE HART _lane_, Broadway, Westminster.*


WHITE HART _row_, 1. Baker’s row.* 2. Bell lane.* 3. Hackney road.*


WHITE HART _stairs_, Lambeth.*


WHITE HART _street_, 1. Kent street, Southwark.* 2. Warwick lane,
Newgate street.*


WHITE HART _yard_, 1. Barnaby street, Southwark.* 2. Broad way,
Westminster.* 3. Charterhouse lane, by Hicks’s hall.* 4. Drury lane.*
5. Fore street.* 6. Gracechurch street.* 7. Islington.* 8. Long Acre.*
9. Lower East Smithfield.* 10. Newington Butts.* 11. Whitecross street.*


WHITE HIND _court_, 1. Bishopsgate street, without.* 2. Coleman street.*


WHITE HIND _yard_, Hoxton.*


WHITE HORN _court_, near new Gravel lane.*


WHITE HORSE _alley_, 1. Arundel street in the Strand.* 2. Barnaby
street, Southwark.* 3. Chick lane, Smithfield.* 4. Cowcross, near
Smithfield.* 5. Fenchurch street.* 6. Fleet market.* 7. Great
Eastcheap.* 8. near Guy of Warwick court, Upper ground, Southwark.*
9. St. John’s street, Smithfield.* 10. Kent street, Southwark.* 11.
Turnmill street.*


WHITE HORSE _court_, 1. Addle Hill.* 2. Barnaby street.* 3. Borough.*
4. Fore street.* 5. Kent street. 6. King street, Westminster.* 7.
Rosemary lane.* 8. Whitecross street.*


WHITE HORSE _inn meal market_, near Holbourn.*


WHITE HORSE _inn yard_, St. Margaret’s hill, Southwark.*


WHITE HORSE _lane_, 1. Mile-End Old Town.* 2. White horse street,
Ratcliff.*


WHITE HORSE _passage_, Great Swallow street.*


WHITE HORSE _street_, 1. Hide Park road.* 2. Queen street.* 3.
Ratcliff.*


WHITE HORSE _yard_, 1. Aldersgate.* 2. Blackman street, Southwark.* 3.
Berry street.* 4. Chiswell street.* 5. Coleman street.* 6. Drury lane.*
7. Duke’s street, Lincoln’s Inn fields.* 8. East Smithfield.* 9. Fan’s
alley, Goswell street.* 10. Fetter lane, Fleet street.* 11. Islington
road, St. John’s street.* 12. Kent street, Southwark.* 13. King
street, Oxford street.* 14. London wall.* 15. Love lane.* 16. Lower
East Smithfield.* 17. Pear Tree street, Brick lane, Old street.* 18.
Piccadilly.* 19. Pickax street.* 20. Ratcliff Highway.* 21. Rosemary
lane, Little Tower Hill.* 22. Seething lane, Tower street.* 23. Upper
Ground street, Southwark.*


WHITEHOUSE’S _court_, St. Thomas’s street, Southwark.†


WHITE LION _alley_, Birching lane, Cornhill.*


WHITE LION _court_, 1. Addle hill, Thames street.* 2. Barbican,
Aldersgate street.* 3. Barnaby street, Southwark.* 4. Birching lane.*
5. Blossom’s street, Norton Falgate.* 6. Broad street by the east
end of Throgmorton street.* 7. Carpenter’s yard, London wall.* 8.
Charterhouse lane, near Smithfield.* 9. Corn hill.* 10. Fleet street.*
11. New street: 12. Newtoners lane: 13. Petticoat lane, Whitechapel.*
14. in the Savoy.* 15. Throgmorton street, Lothbury.* 16. Tower street.*


WHITE LION _street_, 1. Norton Falgate, by Shoreditch.* 2. St. George’s
Fields.* 3. Rag Fair.*


WHITE LION _wharf_, Thames street.*


WHITE LION _yard_, 1. Barnaby street, Southwark.* 2. Narrow street,
Limehouse.* 3. Norton Falgate.* 4. Upper Shadwell.*


WHITE ROSE _alley_, Whitecross street, Cripplegate.*


WHITE ROSE _court_, Coleman street.*


WHITE _row_, Bell lane, Spitalfields.


WHITENING _ground_, near Maiden lane: 2. Morgan’s lane, Southwark.


WHITE SWAN _coach yard_, Blackman street.*


WHITE SWAN _court_, Newgate street.*


WHITE SWAN _stairs_, near Thames street.*


WHITE SWAN _yard_, Shoreditch.*


WHITE’S _alley_, 1. Bond’s stables, by Fetter lane.† 2. St.
Catharine’s court, St. Catharine’s.† 3. Chancery lane.† 4. Between
Swan alley, and Great Bell alley, Coleman street.† 5. Holbourn.† 6.
Little Moor fields.† 7. Long ditch, Westminster.† 8. Middle Moor
fields.†


WHITE’S _court_, Vine yard, St. Olave’s street.†


WHITE’S _ground_, Crucifix lane, Barnaby street, Southwark.†


WHITE’S _rents_, Fore street, Limehouse.†


WHITE’S _row_, Baker’s row.†


WHITE’S _street_, 1. Blackman street.† 2. Houndsditch.† 3.
Rotherhith.† 4. Horselydown.† 5. Pelham street, Spitalfields.†


WHITE’S _yard_, 1. East Smithfield.† 2. Green walk, Southwark.† 3.
Lamb alley.† 4. Rosemary lane.† 5. Whitecross street.†


WHITING’S _alley_, 1. Morgan’s lane.† 2. near Tooley street,
Southwark.†


WHITTAL’S _rents_, Long lane.†


WHITTINGTON’S ALMSHOUSE, Sir Richard Whittington several times Mayor
of this city, about the year 1413, founded a college on the north side
of the church of St. Michael Pater Noster, for a master, four fellows,
clerks, choristers, _&c._ together with an almshouse for thirteen poor
men; one of whom to be tutor, with a salary of 1_s._ 4_d._ per week,
and the twelve others 1_s._ 2_d._ each, with necessary provisions. The
college was dissolved by act of parliament in the reign of Edward VI.
but the almshouse situated upon College hill still remains under the
direction of the mercers company; who, besides a handsome room for the
use of each of the pensioners, allow them 3_s._ 10_d._ per week, and
the men every third year coats and breeches, and the women, who are now
also admitted, have gowns and petticoats. _Stow’s Survey._


WHORE’S NEST, Harrow corner.║


WICKHAM’S _court_, Great Wild street.†


WIDEGATE _alley_, Bishopsgate street without.


WIGAN’S _court_, Church lane, Limehouse.†


WIGAN’S _key_, Thames street.†


WIGHTMAN’S _alley_, St. John’s street, Smithfield.†


WIGMORE _row_, Marybone fields.


WIGMORE _street_, Wellbeck street, near Marybone fields.


WILDAY’S _wharf_, Cock hill, Ratcliff.†


WILD _court_, Great Wild street.†


WILDERNESS _lane_, Salisbury court, Fleet street.


WILDERNESS _row_, Chelsea.


WILD-GOOSE _alley_, Thames street.*


WILD’S _passage_, Drury lane.†


WILD’S _rents_. Long lane Southwark.†


WILLIAMS’S _court_, New Gravel lane.†


_Dr._ WILLIAMS’S LIBRARY, in Redcross street, Cripplegate, for the
use of the dissenting ministers, of the presbyterian, independant
and baptist persuasions, was founded by Daniel Williams, D. D. a
presbyterian divine, who in 1711, among other considerable legacies,
bequeathed his valuable collection of books and manuscripts for
the above purpose, with a handsome salary for a librarian and a
housekeeper, in pursuance of his will a neat building was erected in
Redcross street, with a genteel apartment for the librarian, _&c._ and
a spacious room capable of containing 40,000 volumes. The original
library has been augmented by many thousand volumes presented to it.

This library is under the direction of twenty-three trustees, fourteen
of whom are ministers, and nine of them lay gentlemen; but all of the
presbyterian denomination: with a secretary and a steward.

In this library is a register, wherein parents may enter the birth
of their children. This is of the greater use to the dissenters, as
few or none of the dissenting meeting houses have any register of
christenings, and as a great body of them do not allow of the baptising
of infants. Here also are some curiosities, as an Egyptian mummy, and
a glass bason, which held the water wherewith Queen Elizabeth was
baptized. This last is kept in a bag, whereon is fixed a paper that
shews how this bason came into the possession of the managers of the
library.


WILLIAMS’S _rents_, Millbank, Westminster Horseferry.†


WILLIFRID’S _rents_, Shad Thames, Horselydown.†


WILLOW _street_, Bank-side, Southwark.‡


WILLOW-TREE _alley_, 1. Nightingale lane.‡ 2. Wapping dock.‡


WILLOW-TREE _court_, 1. Charter House lane.‡ 2. Lower Shadwell.‡


WILLOW-TREE _yard_, Maudlin’s rents.‡


WILSON’S _alley_, Fore street, Lambeth.†


WILSON’S _court_, Rosemary lane, Little Tower Hill.†


WILTSHIRE _lane_, East Smithfield.


WIMBLETON, a village in Surrey, three miles south of Putney church,
where Ethelbert King of Kent was defeated in a battle by Ceaulin the
West Saxon, in the year 568. Wimbleton house stands about half a mile
south from the road on Wimbleton common; it was built by Sir Thomas
Cecil, son of the Lord Treasurer Burleigh, in the year 1588, and was
afterwards General Lambert’s, who had here the finest flower garden
in England. The manor of Wimbleton was purchased by Sarah Churchill,
Duchess Dowager of Marlborough, who left it to the late John Spencer,
Esq; brother to the late Duke of Marlborough, together with a fine
seat she built here, which is adorned with a grand terrace walk, that
extends from the house to the seat of Sir Abraham Janssen, Bart. and
has a fine prospect to the south. Wimbleton common or heath which is
supposed to be as high as Hampstead heath, is about a mile each way, and
is adorned on the sides with several handsome seats.


WIMPLE _mews_, Wimple street.


WIMPLE _street_, Henrietta street.


WINCHESTER _court_, Monkwell street, near Cripplegate.


WINCHESTER _street_, 1. by Broad street, so called from the Mansion
house of the Earls of Winchester there, built by Sir William Pawlet
Knt. created Earl of Wilts, and Marquis of Winchester, Lord High
Treasurer of England in the reign of Edward VI. _Maitland._ 2. St. Mary
Overies, from the palace of the Bishops of Winchester.

In its neighbourhood were the licensed stews under the jurisdiction
of the Bishop, whence the common prostitutes were called Winchester
geese. _Maitland._ The name of stews was given to lewd houses from the
fishponds near this place.


WINCHESTER _yard_, Winchester street, St. Mary Overies.


WINCLE _court_, Pallmall.


WINDELOW’S _court_, Black Friars.†


WINDMILL _alley_, 1. St. Margaret’s hill.* 2. Whitechapel.☐


WINDMILL _bank_, Isle of Dogs, so called from windmills there.


WINDMILL _court_, 1. Coleman street.* 2. Pie corner, near Smithfield.*
3. Snow hill.*


WINDMILL _hill_, 1. Hatton wall: 2. Leather lane, Holbourn: 3. near
Upper Moorfields. This last hill was raised by above a thousand cart
loads of human bones, brought from St. Paul’s Charnel house and laid
there in the year 1549, which being soon after covered with street dirt
from the city, the place was converted into a lay stall, whereby the
ground was so raised, that three windmills were erected upon it, whence
it obtained its present name. _Maitland._


WINDMILL HILL _row_, Upper Moorfields.☐


WINDMILL _lane_, Whitechapel.☐


WINDMILL _street_, 1. Haymarket*: 2. Tottenham Court road.


WINDMILL _yard_, Coleman street.*


WINDSOR, so called from its winding shore, is a pleasant, and well
inhabited borough, twenty-three miles from London, agreeably situated
on the south bank of the Thames, in the midst of delightful vallies.
Its church is a spacious ancient building situated in the High street
of the town, in which is also the town house, a neat regular edifice
built in 1686, and supported with columns and arches of Portland stone;
at the north end is placed in a niche the statue of Queen Anne, in her
royal robes, with the globe and other _regalia_; and underneath, in
the freeze of the entablature of the lesser columns and arches, is the
following inscription in gold letters:

  Anno Regni VIº.
    Dom. 1707.

 _Arte tua, sculptor, non est imitabilis_ ANNA;
  ANNÆ _vis similem sculpere? sculpe Deam_
        S. Chapman, _Prætore_.

And in another niche on the south side is the statue of Prince George
of Denmark, her Majesty’s royal consort, in a Roman military habit, and
underneath is the following inscription:

     _Serenissimo Principi_
    GEORGIA _Principi_ Daniæ,
  Heroi omni sæculo venerando,
    Christophorus Wren, _Arm._
       Posuit. MDCCXIII.

In the area, underneath the town hall the market is kept every Saturday
and is plentifully supplied with corn, meat, fish, and all other
provisions.

Besides the castle, the chief ornament of the place; many gentlemen of
fortune and family constantly reside in the town and its neighbourhood.
The Duke of St. Albans has a handsome large house on the east part of
the town, with pleasant gardens that extend to the park: and at the
south side of the town is Sir Edward Walpole’s house, a neat regular
edifice with large gardens beautifully laid out and designed; where
Marshal Bellisle resided for some time while a prisoner in England,
during the last war.


WINDSOR CASTLE, the most delightful palace of our Sovereigns, was first
built by William the Conqueror soon after his being established on
the throne of this kingdom, on account of its pleasant and healthful
situation, and as a place of security; it was greatly improved by Henry
I. who added many additional buildings, and surrounded the whole with a
strong wall. Our succeeding Monarchs resided in the same castle, till
King Edward III. caused the ancient building to be taken down; erected
the present stately castle, and St. George’s chapel; inclosed the whole
with a strong wall or rampart of stone, and instituted the most noble
order of the garter.

[Illustration:
    _S. Wale del._      _B. Green sculp._
           _Windsor Castle._]

It may be proper to observe, that William of Wickham, afterwards Bishop
of Winchester, was principally employed by Edward III. in building this
castle, and when he had finished it, he caused this doubtful sentence
to be cut on one of the towers:

  THIS MADE WICKHAM.

which being reported to the King, as if that prelate had assumed to
himself the honour of building this castle, that Bishop would probably
have fallen under his Majesty’s displeasure, had he not readily assured
his royal master, that he meant it only as an acknowledgment, that this
building had _made him great_ in the favour of his Prince; and had
occasioned his being raised to his present high station.

Great additions were in succeeding times made to the castle, by several
of our Monarchs, particularly by Edward IV. Henry VII. Henry VIII.
Elizabeth, and Charles II. This last Prince soon after the restoration,
entirely repaired the castle, and though it had suffered greatly by
plunder and rapine, in the preceding times of national disorder, he
restored it to its ancient splendor. As that Prince usually kept his
court there during the summer season, he spared no expence in rendering
it worthy the royal residence; he entirely changed the face of the
upper court; he enlarged the windows and made them regular, richly
furnished the royal apartments, and had them decorated with large and
beautiful paintings, and erected a large magazine of arms.

In short, King Charles II. left little to be done to the castle except
some additional paintings in the apartments, which were added by his
successors James II. and William III. in whose reign the whole was
completed.

This stately and venerable castle is divided into two courts or
wards, with a large round tower between them called the middle ward,
it being formerly separated from the lower ward by a strong wall and
drawbridge. The whole contains above twelve acres of land, and has
many towers and batteries for its defence: but length of time have
abated their strength, and the happy union that subsists between the
Prince and people, has made it unnecessary to keep these fortifications
in perfect repair.

The castle is situated upon a high hill, which rises by a gentle
ascent, and enjoys a most delightful prospect around it, in the front
is a wide and extensive vale, adorned with corn fields and meadows,
with groves on either side, and the calm smooth water of the Thames
running through it, and behind it are every where hills covered with
woods, as if dedicated by nature, for game and hunting.

On the declivity of the hill is a fine terrace faced with a rampart
of free stone, 1870 feet in length. This may justly be said to be one
of the noblest walks in Europe, both with respect to the strength and
grandeur of the building, and the fine and extensive prospect over the
Thames of the adjacent country on every side, where from the variety of
fine villas scattered about, nature and art seem to vie with each other
in beauty.

From this terrace you enter a beautiful park, which surrounds the
palace, and is called the little or house park, to distinguish it from
another adjoining, which is of a much larger extent. This little park
is four miles in circumference, and surrounded by a brick wall. The
turf is of the most beautiful green, and it is adorned with many shady
walks; especially that called Queen Elizabeth’s, which, on the summer
evenings is frequented by the best company. A fine plain on the top of
the hill was made level for bowling in the reign of King Charles II.
and from hence is the like extended prospect over the Thames, and the
same beautiful and well cultivated country. The park is well stocked
with deer and other game, and the keeper’s lodge at the farther end is
a delightful habitation.

But to return to the castle. In the upper court is a spacious and
regular square, containing on the north side the royal apartments,
and St. George’s chapel and hall, on the south and the east sides are
the royal apartments, those of the Prince of Wales, and the great
officers of state, and in the centre of the area is an equestrian
statue in copper of King Charles II. in the habit of one of the Cæsars,
standing on a marble pedestal, adorned with various kinds of fruit,
fish, shipping and other ornaments. On the east side is the following
inscription on a shield:

      CAROLO SECUNDO.
      _Regum Optimo,_
  _Domino suo clementissimo._
       Tobias Rustat
   _Hanc Effigiem humilime_
     _Dedit et Dedicavit_,
    Anno Domini MDCLXXX.

The Round tower, which forms the west side of this upper court,
contains the Governor’s apartments. It is built on the highest part
of the mount, and there is an ascent to it by a large flight of stone
steps: these apartments are spacious and noble, and among the rest is
a guard-room or magazine of arms. King Charles II. began to face this
mount with brick, but only compleated that part next the court.

The Lower court is larger than the other, and is in a manner divided
into two parts by St. George’s chapel, which stands in the centre. On
the north, or inner side are the several houses and apartments of the
Dean and canons of St. George’s chapel, with those of the minor canons,
clerks and other officers; and on the south and west sides of the outer
part, are the houses of the poor knights of Windsor. In this court are
also several towers belonging to the officers of the crown, when the
court is at Windsor, and to the officers of the order of the garter.

The royal apartments are on the north side of the Upper court, and are
usually termed the Star building, from a star and garter in gold in the
middle of the structure, on the out side next the terrace.

The entrance into the apartments is through a handsome vestibule,
supported by columns of the Ionic order, with some antique bustos in
several niches; from hence you proceed to the great staircase, which is
finely painted with several fabulous stories from Ovid’s Metamorphoses:
In the dome Phaeton is represented desiring Apollo to grant him
leave to drive the chariot of the sun; in large compartments on the
staircase, are the transformation of Phaeton’s sisters into poplar
trees, with this inscription, _Magnis tamen excidit Ausis_; and Cycnus
changed into a swan. In several parts of the ceiling are represented
the signs of the Zodiac supported by the winds, with baskets of flowers
beautifully disposed: at the corners are the four Elements each
express’d by a variety of figures. Aurora is also represented with her
nymphs in waiting, giving water to her horses. In several parts of the
staircase are the figures of Music, Painting, and the other sciences.
The whole is beautifully disposed and heightened with gold, and from
this staircase you have a view of the back stairs painted with the
story of Meleager and Atalanta.

I. Having ascended the staircase, you enter first into the Queen’s
guard chamber, which is compleatly furnished with guns, pistols,
bayonets, pikes, swords, _&c._ beautifully ranged and disposed into
various forms, as the star and garter, the royal cypher, and other
ornaments. On the cieling is Britannia in the person of Queen Catharine
of Portugal, consort to King Charles II. seated on a globe, bearing
the arms of England and Portugal, with the four grand divisions of the
earth Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, attended by deities, making
their several offerings. On the outer part of this beautiful group,
are the signs of the Zodiac, and in different parts of the cieling are
Minerva, Mars, Venus, and other heathen deities, with Zephyrs, Cupids,
and other embellishments properly disposed; over the chimney is a
portrait of Prince George of Denmark on horseback, by Dahl; with a view
of shipping by Vandewell.

II. You next enter the Queen’s presence chamber, where Queen Catharine
is represented attended by Religion, Prudence, Fortitude and other
Virtues: she is under a curtain spread by Time, and supported by
Zephyrs, while Fame sounds the happiness of Britain; below, Justice is
driving away Envy, Sedition, and other evil genii. The room is hung
with tapestry, containing the history of the beheading of St. Paul,
and the persecution of the primitive Christians; and adorned with the
pictures of Judith and Holofernes, by Guido Reni; a Magdalen, by Sir
Peter Lelly; and a Prometheus by young Palma.

III. On entering the Queen’s audience chamber, you see the cieling
painted with Britannia in the person of Queen Catharine, in a carr
drawn by swans to the temple of Virtue, attended by Flora, Ceres,
Pomona, _&c._ with other decorations heightened with gold. The canopy
is of fine English velvet, set up by Queen Anne; and the tapestry
was made at Coblentz in Germany, and presented to King Henry VIII.
The pictures hung up in this room, are, a Magdalen by moonlight, by
Carracci; St. Stephen stoned, by Rotterman; and Judith and Holofernes,
by Guido Reni.

IV. On the cieling of the ball room King Charles II. is represented
giving freedom to Europe by the figures of Perseus and Andromeda; on
the shield of Perseus is inscribed _Perseus Britannicus_, and over
the head of Andromeda is wrote _Europa Liberata_, and Mars attended
by the celestial deities, offers the olive branch. On the coving of
this chamber is the story of Perseus and Andromeda, the four seasons,
and the signs of the Zodiac, the whole heightened with gold. The
tapestry, which was made at Brussels, and set up by King Charles II.
represents the seasons of the year; and the room is adorned with the
following pictures, the Roman Charity, after Tintoret; Duns Scotus, by
Spagnoletto; a Madona, by Titian; Fame, by Palmegiani, the Arts and
Sciences, also by Palmegiani; and Pan and Syrinx by Stanick.

V. The next room you enter is the Queen’s drawing room, where on the
cieling is painted the assembly of the gods and goddesses, the whole
intermixed with cupids, flowers, _&c._ and heightened with gold. The
room is hung with tapestry representing the twelve months of the year,
and adorned with the pictures of Lot and his daughters, after Angelo;
Lady Digby, wife of Sir Kenelm Digby, by Vandyke; a sleeping Venus, by
Poussin; a family in the character of Mark Anthony and Cleopatra, by de
Bray; a Spanish family, after Titian; and a flower piece by Varelst.

VI. In the Queen’s bed-chamber, the bed of state is rich flowered
velvet made in Spitalfields, by order of Queen Anne, and the tapestry,
which represents the harvest season, was also made at London, by
Poyntz. The cieling is painted with the story of Diana and Endymion,
and the room is adorned with the pictures of the Holy family, by
Raphael; Herod’s cruelty by Giulio Romano; and Judith and Holofernes,
by Guido.

VII. The next is the room of Beauties, so named from the portraits of
the most celebrated beauties in the reign of King Charles II. they are
fourteen in number, _viz._ Lady Ossory, the Duchess of Somerset, the
Duchess of Cleveland, Lady Gramont, the Countess of Northumberland, the
Duchess of Richmond, Lady Birons, Mrs. Middleton, Lady Denham and her
sister, Lady Rochester, Lady Sunderland, Mrs. Dawson, and Mrs. Knott.
These are all original paintings drawn to great perfection by Sir Peter
Lelly.

VIII. In the Queen’s dressing room are the following portraits, Queen
Henrietta Maria, wife to King Charles I. Queen Mary, when a child, and
Queen Catharine; these three are all done by Vandyke; the Duchess of
York, mother to Queen Mary and Queen Anne, by Sir Peter Lelly.

In this room is a closet wherein are several paintings, and in
particular a portrait of the Countess of Desmond, who is said to have
lived to within a few days of an hundred and fifty years of age; also a
portrait of Erasmus and other learned men. In this closet is likewise
the banner of France annually delivered on the second of August by
the Duke of Marlborough, by which he holds Blenheim house built at
Woodstock in Oxfordshire in the reign of Queen Anne, as a national
reward to that great General for his many glorious victories over the
French.

IX. You are next conducted into Queen Elizabeth’s or the picture
gallery, which is richly adorned with the following paintings: King
James I. and his Queen, whole lengths, by Vansomer; Rome in flames,
by Giulio Romano; a Roman family, by Titian; the Holy family, after
Raphael; Judith and Holofernes, by Tintoret; a night piece, by Skalkin;
the pool of Bethesda, by Tintoret; a portrait of Charles VI. Emperor of
Germany, by Sir Godfrey Kneller; the wise men making their offerings to
Christ, by Paulo Veronese; two usurers, an admired piece, by the famous
blacksmith of Antwerp; Perseus and Andromeda, by Schiavone; Aretine
and Titian, by Titian; the Duke of Gloucester, a whole length by Sir
Godfrey Kneller; Prince George of Denmark, a whole length by Dahl;
King Henry VIII. by Hans Holbein; Vandanelli, an Italian statuary, by
Correggio; the founders of different orders in the Romish church, by
Titian and Rembrant; a rural piece in low life, by Bassano; a fowl
piece, by Varelst; the battle of Spurs near Terevaen in France, in
1513, by Hans Holbein; two views of Windsor Castle, by Wosterman, and
two Italian markets, by Michael Angelo. In this room is also a curious
amber cabinet, presented by the King of Prussia to Queen Caroline.

There is here likewise Queen Caroline’s china closet, filled with a
great variety of curious china elegantly disposed, and the whole room
is finely gilt and ornamented; over the chimney are the pictures of
Prince Arthur, and his two sisters, the children of King Henry VII. by
Holbein; and in this closet is also a fine amber cabinet, presented to
Queen Anne, by Dr. Robinson, Bishop of London, and plenipotentiary at
the congress of Utrecht.

X. From this gallery a return is made to the King’s closet, the cieling
of which is adorned with the story of Jupiter and Leda. Among the
curiosities in this room is a large frame of needle work, said to
be wrought by Mary Queen of Scots, while a prisoner in Fotheringhay
castle; among other figures, she herself is represented supplicating
for justice before the Virgin Mary, with her son, afterwards King James
I. standing by her; in a scrawl is worked these words _Sapientiam
amavi et exquisivi a juventute mea_. This piece of work, after its
having lain a long time in the wardrobe, was set up by order of Queen
Anne. The pictures are, a Magdalen, by Carracci; a sleeping cupid, by
Correggio; contemplation, by Carracci; Titian’s daughter, by herself;
and a German Lady, by Raphael.

XI. You are next conducted into the King’s dressing room, where the
cieling is painted with the story of Jupiter and Danae; and adorned
with the pictures of the birth of Jupiter, by Giulio Romano; and of a
naked Venus asleep, by Sir Peter Lelly.

XII. On leaving the above room, you are conducted into the King’s bed
chamber, which is hung with tapestry representing the story of Hero
and Leander; the bed of state, which was set up in the reign of King
Charles II. is of fine blue cloth, richly embroidered with gold and
silver; and on the cieling that Prince is represented in the robes of
the garter, under a canopy supported by Time, Jupiter and Neptune, with
a wreath of laurel over his head, and he is attended by Europe, Asia,
Africa, and America, paying their obedience to him. The paintings are,
King Charles II. when a boy, in armour, by Vandyke; and St. Paul stoned
at Lystra, by Paulo Veronese.

XIII. The cieling of the King’s drawing room, which is next seen, is
finely painted with King Charles II. riding in a triumphal carr, drawn
by the horses of the sun, attended by Fame, Peace, and the polite arts;
Hercules is driving away Rebellion, Sedition and Ignorance; Britannia
and Neptune, properly attended, are paying obedience to the Monarch as
he passes; and the whole is a lively representation of the restoration
of that Monarch, and the introduction of arts, and sciences in these
kingdoms. In the other parts of the cieling are painted the labours of
Hercules, with festoons of fruit and flowers, the whole beautifully
decorated in gold and stone colour. The pictures hung up in this room
are, a converted Chinese, by Sir Godfrey Kneller; the Marquis of
Hamilton, after Vandyke, by Hanneman; Herodias’s daughter, by Carlo
Dolci; a Magdalen, by Carlo Dolci; and a Venetian Lady, by Titian.

XIV. You next enter the King’s drawing room, where the painted cieling
represents the banquet of the gods, with a variety of fish and fowl.
The pictures hung up here are, the portraits of his present Majesty,
and the late Queen Caroline, whole lengths; Hercules and Omphale,
Cephalus and Procris, the birth of Venus, and Venus and Adonis, the
four last by Genario; a naval triumph of King Charles II. by Verrio;
the marriage of St. Catharine, by Dawkers; nymphs and satyrs, by
Rubens and Snyders; hunting the wild boar, by Snyders; a picture of
still life, by Girardo; the taking of the bears, by Snyders; a night
piece, being a family singing by candle light, by Quistin; a Bohemian
family, by de Brie; divine love, by an unknown hand; and Lacy, a famous
comedian in King Charles the Second’s time, in three characters, by
Wright.

Many of the paintings in this room are best seen at noon by the
reflection of the sun; the carving of this chamber is very beautiful,
representing a great variety of fowl, fish and fruit, done to the
utmost perfection on lime wood, by Mr. Gibbons, a famous statuary and
carver in the reign of King Charles II.

XV. In the King’s audience chamber, the canopy, which was set up in
the reign of King Charles II. is of green velvet, richly embroidered
with gold, and on the cieling is represented the establishment of the
church of England at the restoration, in the characters of England,
Scotland and Ireland, attended by Faith, Hope, Charity, and the
Cardinal Virtues; Religion triumphs over Superstition and Hypocrisy,
who are driven by cupids from before the face of the church, all
which are represented in their proper attitudes, and highly finished.
The pictures hung up in this room are, our Saviour before Pilate, by
Michael Angelo; the Apostles at our Saviour’s tomb, by Scavoni; Peter,
James and John, by Michael Angelo; and the Duchess of Richmond, by
Vandyke.

XVI. The King’s presence chamber is hung with tapestry containing the
history of Queen Athaliah, and the cieling is finely adorned with
painting, Mercury is represented with an original portrait of King
Charles II. which he shews to the four quarters of the world introduced
by Neptune; Fame declaring the glory of that Prince, and Time driving
away Rebellion, Sedition, and their companions. Over the canopy is
Justice in stone colour, shewing the arms of Britain to Thames and
the river nymphs, with the star of Venus, and this label, _Sydus
Carolynum_, at the lower end of the chamber is Venus in a marine carr
drawn by tritons and sea-nymphs. The portraits hung up are, Henry
Duke of Gloucester, brother to King Charles II. and his governess the
Countess of Dorset, both by Vandyke; and father Paul, by Tintoret.

XVII. The King’s guard chamber, which you next enter, is a spacious and
noble room, in which is a large magazine of arms, consisting of some
thousands of pikes, pistols, guns, coats of mail, swords, halberts,
bayonets, and drums, disposed in a most curious manner in colonades,
pillars, circles, shields, and other devices by Mr. Harris, late
master gunner of this castle; the person who invented this beautiful
arrangement of arms, and placed those in the great armoury in the Tower
of London. The cieling is finely painted in water-colours: in one
circle is Mars and Minerva, and in the other Peace and Plenty. In the
dome is also a representation of Mars, and over the chimney piece is
a picture of Charles XI. King of Sweden, on horseback, as big as the
life, by Wyck.

At an installation, the Knights of the garter dine here in great state
in the absence of the Sovereign.

XVIII. You next enter St. George’s chamber, which is particularly set
apart to the honour of the most illustrious order of the garter, and
is perhaps one of the noblest rooms in Europe, both with regard to the
building and the painting, which is here performed in the most grand
taste. In a large oval in the centre of the ceiling King Charles II. is
represented in the habit of the order, attended by England, Scotland
and Ireland; Religion and Plenty hold the crown of these kingdoms over
his head; Mars and Mercury, with the emblems of war and peace stand on
each side. In the same oval Regal Government is represented upheld by
Religion and Eternity, with justice attended by Fortitude, Temperance
and Prudence, beating down Rebellion and Faction. Towards the throne is
represented in an octogon St. George’s cross incircled with the garter,
within a star or glory supported by Cupids, with the motto,

  HONI SOIT QUI MAL Y PENSE.

and besides other embellishments relating to the order, the Muses are
represented attending in full consort.

On the back of the state, or Sovereign’s throne, is a large drapery, on
which is painted St. George encountering the dragon, as large as the
life, and on the lower border of the drapery is inscribed,

  VENIENDO RESTITUIT REM,

in allusion to King William III. who is painted in the habit of the
order, sitting under a royal canopy, by Sir Godfrey Kneller. To the
throne is an ascent by five steps of fine marble, to which the painter
has added five more, which are done with such perfection as to deceive
the sight, and induce the spectator to think them equally real.

This noble room is an hundred and eight feet in length, and the whole
north side is taken up with the triumph of Edward the Black Prince,
after the manner of the Romans. At the upper part of the hall is Edward
III. that Prince’s father, the conqueror of France and Scotland, and
the founder of the order of the garter, seated on a throne, receiving
the Kings of France and Scotland prisoners; the Black Prince is seated
in the middle of the procession, crowned with laurel; and carried by
slaves; preceded by captives, and attended by the emblems of Victory,
Liberty, and other _ensignia_ of the Romans, with the banners of France
and Scotland displayed. The painter has given a loose to his fancy by
closing the procession with the fiction of the Countess of Salisbury,
in the person of a fine lady, making garlands for the Prince, and the
representation of the merry wives of Windsor.

At the lower end of the hall is a noble music gallery, supported by
slaves, larger than the life, in proper attitudes, said to represent a
father and his three sons, taken prisoners by the Black Prince in his
wars abroad. Over this gallery on the lower compartment of the ceiling
is the collar of the order of the garter fully displayed. The painting
of this room was done by Verro, and is highly finished and heightened
with gold.

XIX. You are next conducted to St. George’s or the King’s chapel, which
is no less royally adorned. On the ceiling is finely represented our
Lord’s ascension; and the altar-piece is adorned with a noble painting
of the last supper. The north side of the chapel is ornamented with
the representation of our Saviour’s raising Lazarus from the dead, his
curing the sick of the palsy, and other miracles, beautifully painted
by Verro; and in a group of spectators the painter has introduced his
own effigy, with those of Sir Godfrey Kneller, and Mr. Cooper, who
assisted him in these paintings. The east end of this chapel is taken
up with the closets belonging to his Majesty and the Royal family. The
canopy, curtains, and furniture are of crimson velvet, fringed with
gold; and the carved work of this chapel, which is well worthy the
attention of the curious, is done by that famous artist Gibbons, in
lime-tree, representing a great variety of pelicans, doves, palms, and
other allusions to scripture history, with the star and garter, and
other ornaments finished to great perfection.

From St. George’s chapel you are conducted to the Queen’s guard
chamber, the first room you entered; for this is the last of the state
apartments at present shown to the public; the others being only opened
when the court resides at Windsor. They consist of many beautiful
chambers, adorned with the paintings of the greatest masters.

In passing from hence the stranger usually looks into the inner or horn
court, so called from a pair of stag’s horns of a very extraordinary
size, taken in the forest and set up in that court, which is painted in
bronze and stone colour. On one side is represented a Roman battle, and
on the opposite side a sea fight, with the images of Jupiter, Neptune,
Mercury and Pallas; and in the gallery is a representation of King
David playing before the ark.

From this court a flight of stone steps lead to the King’s guard
chamber; and in the cavity under these steps, and fronting this court,
is a figure of Hercules also in stone colours. On a dome over the
steps, is painted the battle of the Gods, and on the sides of the stair
case is a representation of the four ages of the world, and two battles
of the Greeks and Romans in fresco.

_St. George’s chapel_, among the buildings of this noble palace we
have mentioned the chapel of St. George situated in the middle of the
lower court. This antient structure, which is now in the purest style
of Gothic architecture, was first erected by King Edward III. in the
year 1337, soon after the foundation of the college, for the honour
of the order of the garter, and dedicated to St. George, the patron
of England; but however noble the first design might be, King Edward
IV. not finding it entirely completed, enlarged the structure and
designed the present building, together with the houses of the dean and
canons, situated on the north and west sides of the chapel; the work
was afterwards carried on by Henry VII. who finished the body of the
chapel, and Sir Reginald Bray, knight of the garter, and the favourite
of that King, assisted in ornamenting the chapel and compleating the
roof.

The architecture of the inside has always been esteemed for its
neatness and great beauty, and in particular the stone roof is reckoned
an excellent piece of workmanship. It is an ellipsis supported by
Gothic pillars, whose ribs and groins sustain the whole ceiling, every
part of which has some different device well finished, as the arms of
Edward the Confessor, Edward III. Henry VI. Edward IV. Henry VII. and
Henry VIII. also the arms of England and France quarterly, the cross
of St. George, the rose, portcullis, lion rampant, unicorn, &c. In
a chapel in the south isle is represented in ancient painting, the
history of John the Baptist, and in the same isle are painted on large
pannels of oak, neatly carved and decorated with the several devices
peculiar to each Prince, the portraits at full length of Prince Edward,
son to Henry VI. Edward IV. Edward V. and Henry VII. In the north isle
is a chapel dedicated to St. Stephen, wherein the history of that
saint is painted on the pannels and well preserved. In the first of
these pannels St. Stephen is represented preaching to the people; in
the second he is before Herod’s tribunal; in the third he is stoning;
and in the fourth he is represented dead. At the east end of this isle
is the chapter house of the college, in which is a portrait at full
length, by a masterly hand, of the victorious Edward III. in his robes
of state, holding in his right hand a sword, and bearing the crowns
of France and Scotland, in token of the many victories he gained over
those nations. On one side of this painting is kept the sword of that
great and warlike Prince.

But what appears most worthy of notice is the choir. On each side are
the stalls of the Sovereign and Knights companions of the most noble
order of the garter, with the helmet, mantling, crest, and sword,
of each Knight set up over his stall on a canopy of antient carving
curiously wrought, and over the canopy is affixed the banner or arms of
each Knight properly blazon’d on silk, and on the back of the stalls
are the titles of the Knights, with their arms neatly engraved and
blazoned on copper. The Sovereign’s stall is on the right hand of the
entrance into the choir, and is covered with purple velvet and cloth
of gold, and has a canopy and compleat furniture of the same valuable
materials; his banner is likewise of velvet, and his mantling of cloth
of gold. The Prince’s stall is on the left, and has no distinction
from those of the rest of the Knights companions, the whole society,
according to the statutes of the institution, being companions and
collegues, equal in honor and power.

The altar-piece was soon after the restoration, adorned with cloth of
gold and purple damask by King Charles II. but on removing the wainscot
of one of the chapels in 1707, a fine painting of the Lord’s supper
was found, which being approved of by Sir James Thornhill, Verrio, and
other eminent masters, was repaired and placed on the altar-piece.

Near the altar is the Queen’s gallery, for the accommodation of the
ladies at an installation.

In a vault under the marble pavement of this choir, are interred the
bodies of Henry VIII. and Jane Seymour his Queen, King Charles I. and
a daughter of the late Queen Anne. In the south isle, near the door of
the choir, is buried Henry VI. and the arch near which he was interred
was sumptuously decorated by Henry VIII. with the royal ensigns and
other devices, but they are now much defaced by time.

In this chapel is also the monument of Edward Earl of Lincoln, Lord
high Admiral of England in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, erected by his
Lady, who is also interred with him. The monument is of alabastar, with
pillars of porphyry.

Another, within a neat screen of brass work, is erected to the memory
of Charles Somerset, Earl of Worcester, and Knight of the garter, who
died in 1526, and his lady, daughter to William Earl of Huntingdon.

A stately monument of white marble erected to the memory of Henry
Somerset, Duke of Beaufort, and Knight of the garter, who died in 1699.
There are here also the tombs of Sir George Manners, Lord Roos; that of
the Lord Hastings, Chamberlain to Edward IV. and several others.

Before we conclude our account of this ancient chapel, it will be
proper to observe that King James II. made use of it for the service
of popery, and mass being publicly performed there, it has ever since
been neglected and suffered to run to ruin; and being no appendage to
the collegiate church, waits the royal favour to retrieve it from the
disgrace of its present situation. _Delices de Windsore._

With respect to the royal foundations in this castle, they are the
most noble order of the garter, which consists of the Sovereign and
twenty-five Knights companions: the royal college of St. George, which
consists of a dean, twelve canons, seven minor canons, eleven clerks,
an organist, a verger, and two sacrists; and the alms-knights, who are
eighteen in number; _viz._ thirteen of the royal foundation, and five
of the foundation of Sir Peter le Maire, in the reign of King James I.

[Illustration:
      _A PLAN OF
    WINDSOR CASTLE_]

_Of the Knights of the Garter._ Windsor Castle being the seat of this
most illustrious order, it may be expected that we should here give
some account of it. The order of the garter was instituted by Edward
III. in the year 1349, for the improvement of military honour, and the
reward of virtue. It is also called the order of St. George, the patron
of England, under whose banner the English always went out to war, and
St. George’s cross was made the ensign of the order. The garter was,
at the same time, appointed to be worn by the Knights on the left leg,
as a principal mark of distinction, not from any regard to a Lady’s
garter, “but as a tye or band of association in honour and military
virtue, to bind the knights companions strictly to himself and each
other, in friendship and true agreement, and as an ensign or bage of
unity and combination, to promote the honour of God, and the glory and
interest of their Prince and Sovereign.” At that time King Edward being
engaged in prosecuting, by arms, his right to the crown of France,
caused the French motto HONI SOIT QUI MAL Y PENSE, to be wrought in
gold letters round the garter, declaring thereby the equity of his
intention, and at the same time retorting shame and defiance upon him
who should dare to think ill of the just enterprize in which he had
engaged, for the support of his right to that crown.

The installation of a Knight of this most noble order consists of
many ceremonies established by the royal founder, and the succeeding
Sovereigns of the order, the care of which is committed to Garter king
at arms, a principal officer of the order, appointed to support and
maintain the dignity of this noble order of knighthood.

On the day appointed for the installation, the Knights commissioners
appointed by the Sovereign to instal the Knights elect, meet in the
morning, in the great chamber in the dean of Windsor’s house, dressed
in the full habit of the order, where the officers of the order also
attend in their habits; but the Knights elect come thither in their
under habits only, with their caps and feathers in their hands.

From hence the Knights walk two and two in procession to St. George’s
chapel, preceded by the poor knights, prebends, heralds, pursuivants,
and other officers of the order, in their several habits; being arrived
there, the Knights elect rest themselves in chairs behind the altar,
and are respectively introduced into the chapter house, where the
Knights commissioners (Garter and the other officers attending) invest
them with the surcoat or upper habit of the order, while the register
reads the following admonition: “take this robe of crimson to the
increase of your honour, and in token or sign of the most noble order
you have received, wherewith you being defended, may be bold, not
only strong to fight, but also to offer yourself to shed your blood
for Christ’s faith, and the liberties of the church, and the just and
necessary defence of them that are oppressed and needy.” Then Garter
presents the crimson velvet girdle to the commissioners, who buckle it
on, and also girds on the hanger and sword.

The procession of each Knight elect separately is afterwards made into
the choir attended by the Lords commissioners, and other companions of
the order, and preceded by the poor knights, prebends, _&c._ as before,
Garter in the middle carrying on a crimson velvet cushion, the mantle,
hood, garter, collar, and george, having the register on his right
hand, who carries the New Testament, and the oath fairly written on
parchment, and the black rod on his left. On entering the choir, after
reverence made to the altar, and the Sovereign’s stall, the Knights
are conducted to their several stalls, under their respective banners,
and other ensigns of honour. The Knights elect then take the oath, and
are compleatly dressed, invested with the mantle of the order, and
the great collar of St. George, which is done with great state and
solemnity.

After the installation, the Knights make their solemn offerings at the
altar, and prayers being ended, the grand procession of the Knights
is made from the choir in their full habits of the order, with their
caps frequently adorned with diamonds and plumes of feathers, on their
heads, round the body of the church, and passing out at the south
door, the procession is continued in great state through the courts of
the castle into St. George’s hall, preceded by his Majesty’s music;
in the following order, the poor knights of Windsor; the choir of St.
George’s chapel; the canons, or prebends of Windsor, the heralds, and
pursuivants at arms; the dean of Windsor, register of the order, with
garter king at arms on his right hand, and on his left the black rod
of the order; the Knights companions, according to their stalls, their
trains supported by the choristers of St. George’s chapel.

The Knights having for some time rested in the royal apartments, a
sumptuous banquet is prepared, if the Sovereign be present, in St.
George’s hall, and in his absence, in the great guard chamber next
adjoining, and the Knights are introduced and dine with great state in
the habits of the order, the music attending. Before dinner is ended,
Garter king at arms proclaims the style and dignity of each Knight,
after which the company retire, and the evening is closed with a ball
for the ladies in the royal lodgings. For the farther illustration of
the preceding account of Windsor Castle, we have given a plan of it,
which shews the exact disposition of the whole, and the situation of
its several parts with regard to each other. The perspective view is
taken from


WINDSOR _great park and forest_. As we have already described the town
of Windsor, the little park and castle, and given some account of the
order of Knights of the garter, we are naturally led to mention the
great park, which lies on the south side of the town and opens by a
noble road in a direct line to the top of a delightful hill at near
thee miles distance. This road leads through a double plantation of
trees on each side, to the ranger’s or keeper’s lodge, at present the
residence of his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland, who has greatly
improved the natural beauties of the park, and by large plantations of
trees, extensive lawns, new roads, canals, and rivers, has rendered
this villa an habitation worthy of a Prince.

The great park is fourteen miles in circumference, and is well stocked
with deer and other game; many foreign beasts and birds are here also
kept by his Royal Highness, who is continually adding new improvements.
The new erected building on Shrub’s hill, adorned beneath with the
prospect of the most beautiful verdure, and a young plantation of
trees, is very elegant, and promises in a short time to afford the most
delightful rural scene, the noble piece of water below, produced at a
great expence from a small stream, is now rendered capable of carrying
barges and boats of pleasure. Over this river, which terminates in a
grotto, and large cascade, his Royal Highness has erected a bridge on a
noble and bold plan, it consisting of one single arch 165 feet wide.

But his Royal Highness’s attention is not confined to the park alone;
but in like manner extends to the adjoining forest, which is of
great extent, and was appropriated to hunting and the residence of
the royal game by William the Conqueror, who established many laws
and regulations for the preservation of the deer, that are still
observed. In this extensive tract of land are several pleasant towns
and villages, of which Wokingham, situated near the center of the
forest, is the principal, and though the soil is generally barren and
uncultivated, yet it is finely diversified with hills and vales, woods
and lawns, and interspersed with pleasant villas. These rural scenes
are finely painted by Mr. Pope, who resided here when he wrote his
Windsor forest, and was himself a native of the place, being born at
Binfield.

  _Here waving groves and chequer’d scenes display,_
  _And part admit, and part exclude the day;_
  _There, interspers’d in lawns and op’ning glades,_
  _There trees arise, that shun each others shades._
  _Here in full light the russet plains extend;_
  _There wrapt in clouds the blueish hills ascend;_
  _Ev’n the wild heath displays her purple dyes,_
  _And ’midst the desart, fruitful fields arise,_
  _That crown’d with tufted trees and springing corn,_
  _Like verdant isles the sable waste adorn._

Among the many fine villas which are in this forest we shall only here
mention Cranborne lodge, which now belongs to the Duke of Cumberland,
as keeper of the forest. It is large and well built, and is happily
situated, it commanding an extensive prospect over a fine plain, and a
rich country, that forms a most beautiful landscape.


WINDSOR _court_, 1. Drury lane: 2. Little Knightrider street, by Addle
hill: 3. Monkwell street, by Silver street, near Cripplegate: 4. in the
Strand.


WINE LICENCE OFFICE, in Arundel street in the Strand. This office is
under the management of five commissioners, who grant licences to the
several retailers of wine in all parts of the kingdom, except to the
free vintners of London.


WINE OFFICE _court_, in Fleet street, leading into Gough’s square.


WINE _street_, 1. Fore street, Limehouse: 2. Liquor Pond street,
Leather lane.


WINE _yard_, Long alley, Moorfields.


WINGFIELD’S _court_, Three Colts street, Limehouse.†


WINGOOSE _alley_, Thames street.†

[Illustration:
    _S. Wale delin._       _F. Vivares sculp._
           _A Scene in Wooburn Farm._]


WINKWORTH’S _buildings_, Austin Friars, Broad street.†


WINSLEY _street_, Oxford street.†


WINSTON’S _court_, Silver street, Wood street.†


WISDOMS _alley_, Millbank, Westminster.


WISE’S _court_, Wheeler street, Spitalfields.†


WISEMAN’S _alley_, Brook street.†


WISEMAN’S _court_, Gardeners lane.†


WITCHELLOR’S _yard_, Thames street.†


WITHER-RUSH _court_, Whitecross street.


WOBURN FARM, the seat of the late Philip Southcote, Esq; it joins to
the Earl of Portmore, just beyond it. ’Tis what the French call a
_Ferme ornée_, but perhaps it is rather too much ornamented for the
simple plainness of a farm; it is altogether however a very pleasing
place. It has a deal of variety and many prospects which are remarkably
beautiful and picturesque. Indeed, there are few places within the same
distance from London which afford such a variety of fine landscapes.


WOOD _street_, 1. a long street extending from Cheapside to
Cripplegate; in this street is one of the two city compters: 2. Hare
street, Spitalfields: 3. North street, Westminster.


WOOD _wharf_, 1. Northumberland street, in the Strand: 2. near Broken
wharf, Thames street: 3. Millbank, Westminster: 4. Wapping.


WOOD _yard_, 1. Back street, Lambeth: 2. Brick lane: 3. Church lane,
Houndsditch: 4. Gravel lane, Houndsditch: 5. Long acre: 6. Maze pond,
Southwark: 7. Moses and Aaron alley, Whitechapel: 8. Ratcliff highway.


WOODFORD, a village near Chingfield in Essex, derived its name from a
ford in Epping forest, where now is Woodford bridge.


WOODROFF _lane_, Crutched Friars.†


WOOD’S ALMSHOUSE, adjoins to that of Gibson’s at Ratcliff, and was
founded by Toby Wood, of Lincoln’s Inn, Esq; in the year 1613, for six
decayed coopers, who have an allowance of 6_l._ _per annum_, and thirty
bushels of coals each.


WOOD’S _alley_, Harrow alley.†


WOOD’S CLOSE, a street which extends from the end of St. John’s street
almost to the turnpike in Islington road.†


WOOD’S _court_, 1. Norton falgate by Shoreditch.† 2. Oxford street.†


WOOD’S _mews_, Tyburn lane.†


WOOD’S _yard_, 1. Norton falgate, by Shoreditch.† 2. Redcross
street.†


WOODSTOCK _court_, Charing Cross.


WOODSTOCK _mews_, Woodstock street.


WOODSTOCK _street_, Oxford street.


WOOLHAM’S _yard_, Gray’s Inn lane, Holborn.†


WOOLIS’S _court_, in the Minories.†


WOOLMEN, a company probably of great antiquity, though they have no
charter, and are a community only by prescription. They have a master,
two wardens, and eleven assistants; but neither hall nor livery.


WOOLPACK _alley_, Houndsditch.*


WOOLPACK _yard_, Kent street, Southwark.*


WOOLSTAPLE _lane_, New Palace yard, so called from the woolstaple
formerly held there. _Stow._


WORCESTER PLACE, Thames street.


WORCESTER PLACE _lane_, Thames street.


WORCESTER _street_, 1. Old Gravel lane, Ratcliff Highway: 2. in the
Park Southwark; 3. Peter street.


WORLD’S-END _bridge_, St. Olave’s street, Southwark.


WORLD’S-END _yard_, Old Horselydown lane, Southwark.


WORLEY’S _court_, Redgate court, in the Minories.†


WORMWOOD _street_, extends from Bishopsgate street to Broad street.


WORREL’S _rents_, Cherry-tree alley, Golden lane.†


WORSHIP _street_, near Upper Moorfields.


WORSLEY’S _yard_, Field lane, the bottom of Holbourn hill.†


WRAY’S _court_, Cross lane, Parker’s lane.†


_Sir Christopher_ WREN, the celebrated architect, many of whose most
excellent works of this kind are described in several places of this
work, and views of them given, has on this account an equal claim to
our regard in this place, with INIGO JONES, his competitor in the same
path of fame, some account of whom we have already given under his name.

Sir Christopher was descended from a branch of the ancient family of
the Wrens, of Binchester in the bishoprick of Durham. He was grandson
of Mr. Francis Wren, citizen of London, and son of Christopher Wren,
dean of Windsor, a younger brother of doctor Matthew Wren, successively
Bishop of Hereford, Norwich, and Ely. He was born at London October the
eighth 1632, and became gentleman commoner of Wadham college in Oxford,
where he took the degree of bachelor of arts, March the eighteenth
1650, and that of master December the eleventh 1653, and the same year
was chosen fellow of Allsouls college there. While he was very young he
discovered a surprising genius for the mathematics; in which science
he made great advancement before he was sixteen years old, as Mr.
Oughtred informs us in the preface to the third edition of his _Clavis_
_Mathematica_, printed at Oxford in 1652. August the seventh 1652, he
was made professor of astronomy at Gresham college in London. In the
beginning of July 1658, he communicated to Doctor Wallis several papers
concerning the Cycloide which were published by Doctor Wallis 1659, in
his treatise _de Cycloide_. In February 1660, Mr. Wren resigned his
professorship at Gresham college, upon being chosen to the Savilian
professorship of astronomy in Oxford. The same year he was sent for by
order of King Charles the Second, to assist Sir John Denham, surveyor
of his Majesty’s works. September the twelfth 1661 he was created
Doctor of laws, and May twenty 1663, was elected fellow of the Royal
Society; in the history of which society by Doctor Sprat, we have
an account of some of his discoveries in philosophy and mathematics
made before the year 1667, the most considerable of which is his
_Doctrine of Motion_, which is the best of all others for establishing
the first principles of philosophy by geometrical demonstrations.
He also published a _History of Seasons_, in which he proposed to
comprehend a diary of wind, weather, and other conditions of the air,
as to heat, cold, and weight, which might be of admirable use if
constantly pursued and derived down to posterity. He also contrived a
thermometer to be its own register, and an instrument to measure the
quantities of rain that fall, and he devised many subtle ways for the
easier finding the gravity of the atmosphere. Some discoveries in the
_Pendulum_ are to be attributed to him, and he has invented many ways
to make astronomical observations more easy and accurate. He added
many devices and improvements to telescopes, and improved the theory
of dioptrics, it being a question among the problems of navigation,
to what mechanical power, sailing against the wind especially, was
reducible, he shewed it to be a wedge. The geometrical mechanics of
rowing he shewed to be a _Vectis_, on a moving or cedent _Fulcrum_. He
invented a curious and speedy way of etching, and has started several
things towards the emendation of water-works. He was the first inventor
of drawing pictures by microscopical glasses. He found out long-liv’d
lamps, and registers of furnaces for keeping a perpetual temper in
order to various uses, as hatching eggs, insects, production of plants,
chemical preparations, imitating nature in producing fossils and
minerals, keeping the motion of watches equal in order to longitude
and astronomical uses, and infinite other advantages. He was the
first author of the noble anatomical experiment of injecting liquors
into the veins of animals, an experiment now well known. It were easy
to enumerate a great number of other inventions and improvements of
his, from Doctor Sprat’s account of them, but these may suffice as a
specimen.

In 1665 Sir Christopher Wren travelled into France, and about the same
year was one of the commissioners for the reparation of St. Paul;
and in September the same year drew up a model for rebuilding the
city of London after the fire in the beginning of that month. Upon
the decease of Sir John Denham, who died in March 1668, he was made
Surveyor-general of his Majesty’s works. In 1669, he finished the
magnificent theatre at Oxford, April the ninth 1673, he resigned his
professorship of astronomy at Oxford, and some time after married the
daughter of Sir Thomas Coghill of Bletchington in Oxfordshire, by whom
he had only one son named Christopher. His wife dying in childbed, he
afterwards married Jane daughter of William Lord Fitz-Williams, Baron
of Lifford in Ireland, by whom he had two children, a son William, and
a daughter Jane. In 1680 he was chosen president of the Royal Society.
He was one of the commissioners of Chelsea college, and twice member
of parliament, first for Plymouth in Devonshire, in 1685; and in 1700,
for Melcomb Regis in Devonshire. In 1718 he was removed from his place
of Surveyor-general. He died February the twenty-fifth 1723, in the
ninety-first year of his age, and was interred in the vault under St.
Paul’s. He was the author of several treatises on different subjects.
Amongst the works of architecture of his designing are the cathedral
of St. Paul’s, the churches of St. Stephen Walbrook and St. Mary le
Bow, the Monument, the palace of Hampton court, Chelsea college, and
Greenwich hospital, _&c._ an account of all which see under their
several names in this work.


WRESTLEY’S _court_, London wall.†


WRIGHT’S _rents_, 1. Barnaby street, Southwark.† 2. Ratcliff
highway.†


WRIGHT’S _street_, Rotherhith.†


WRIGHT’S _yard_, New Marten’s street, near East Smithfield.†


WROTHAM, or WORTHAM, a town in Kent, twenty-five miles from London, and
three miles and a half from West Malling, received its name from the
great quantity of the herb wort, which grows near it. It has a very
large church, in which are sixteen stalls supposed to have been made
for the clergy who attended the Archbishops of Canterbury, to whom the
manor formerly belonged, and who had a palace here, till Simon Islip
the Archbishop in the fourteenth century, pulled it down, and built
another at Maidstone; the rectory is however still reckoned one of the
best livings in Kent. It has a market on Tuesdays.


WYCH _street_, Drury lane.


WYCH’S _court_, Wych street.†


WYNAM’S _court_, Great Russel street.†


  Y.


YEAT’S _court_, 1. Clements lane, Temple bar.† 2. Redcross street.†


YEAT’S _rents_, Jamaica street.†


YEAT’S _street_, Lincoln’s Inn fields.†


YELLOW _street_, in the Minories.


YORK _alley_, St. Mary Magdalen’s church-yard.


YORK _buildings_, in the Strand, so denominated from the Archbishop
of York’s house there, purchased by Nicholas Heath the Archbishop,
about the year 1556, of the Bishop of Norwich, but afterwards coming
to John Duke of Buckingham, he demised the house and garden to several
builders, and they erected there several handsome streets and alleys,
in which his name and title are recorded, _viz._ John street, Villars
street, Duke street, Off alley, and Buckingham street. However these
streets together are still denominated York buildings.


YORK BUILDINGS WATERWORKS, an edifice with a high tower, erected behind
York buildings by the Thames, for raising water for the supply of that
neighbourhood. The company to whom it belongs were incorporated by act
of parliament in the year 1691.


YORK BUILDINGS _stairs_, Terrace walk, York buildings. The beautiful
design for these stairs is of the celebrated Inigo Jones, of the Tuscan
order with rustic work, as the print shews, and is admirably adapted to
the situation. The print is on the same plate with that of the Temple,
which See.


YORK _street_, 1. Anchor street: 2. Bridges street: 3. Jermain street.


YORK _yard_, Long lane, East Smithfield.


YORKSHIRE _court_, 1. Mile-end New Town: 2. Whitechapel.


YORKSHIRE _yard_, 1. Bishopsgate street: 2. Brick lane.


YOUNG’S ALMSHOUSE, in College church-yard, Southwark, was founded by
Mr. Henry Young in the year 1694, for two poor women, with an allowance
of only one shilling per week each. _Maitland._


YOUNG’S _court_, 1. Basinghall street.† 2. Nightingale lane.†


YOUNG’S _key_, Thames street.†


  Z.


ZOAR _street_, Gravel lane.


FINIS.

[Illustration]




Directions to the Binder for placing the Cuts.


VOL. I.
                                   To face Page

   1 Frontispiece, to face the Title
   2 Abby Church of St. Peter’s Westminster   1
   3 Monument of Shakespear                  51
   4 Capt. Cornwall’s Monument               75
   5 Henry the Seventh’s Chapel             113
   6 Admiralty                              134
   7 The Bank                               234
   8 Banquetting House                      244
   9 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital             260
  10 Belvedere House                        271
  11 Bethlem, with London Bridge            297
  12 Figures on Bethlem Gates               298
  13 Sir Gregory Page’s Seat                314
  14 Bedford House                          330


VOL. II.

   1 British Museum                          17
   2 Plan of the British Museum              32
   3 Burlington House                        57
   4 Cashiobury, with Moor Park              71
   5 Chelsea Hospital                       105
   6 Chesterfield House and L. Egremont’s   110
   7 Chiswick House                         114
   8 Christ’s Church Hospital               135
   9 Claremont                              139
  10 House of Commons and Entrance }        165
      to the House of Lords        }
  11 Covent Garden                          194
  12 Custom House                           213
  13 Devonshire House                       225
  14 St. Dunstan’s in the East              253
  15 East India House                       263
  16 Esher Place                            277
  17 Eton College                           280
  18 Fool’s Cray Place                      312
  19 Foundling Hospital                     327
  20 Map of the Environs or Countries twenty
       Miles round London, place to face the
       Title Page of this Volume.


VOL. III.

  1 Bloomsbury Church                         5
  2 Gray’s Inn                               58
  3 Mr. Spenser’s                            65
  4 Greenwich Hospital                       69
  5 Gresham College                          76
  6 Guild Hall                              100
  7 Gunnersbury                             110
  8 Guy’s Hospital                          112
  9 Cascade at Ham Farm                     132
  10 Hampton Court from the Gardens         162
  11 St. James’s Palace                     215
  12 Kensington Palace                      266
  13 Lambeth Palace                         291
  14 Lincoln’s Inn                          309


VOL. IV.

  1 Plan of London to face the Title
  2 Shaftsbury’s House and center of }      160
      Lincoln’s Inn Fields           }
  3 The Mansion-House                       244
  4 Marlborough House                       262
  5 Bow Steeple                             288
  6 Part of the Meuse and St. Martin’s }    323
      Church                           }


VOL. V.

  1 Monument                                  1
  2 Northumberland House and Charing }       53
      Cross                          }
  3 South View of Northumberland House       59
  4 View from the Terrace at Oatlands        60
  5 A Scene in the Gardens of Pain’s Hill   101
  6 St. Paul’s                              139
  7 College of Physicians                   193
  8 View of Ranelagh Gardens                244
  9 Royal Exchange                          280


VOL. VI.

  1 Sion House view’d from Richmond }         7
      Gardens                       }
  2 Sion House view’d from opposite }        14
      Isleworth Church              }
  3 Somerset House                           43
  4 South Sea House                          50
  5 St. Stephen’s Walbrook                   66
  6 Entrance into the Temple and  }         114
      Temple Bar, &c.             }
  7 St. Thomas’s Hospital                   129
  8 The Tower                               148
  9 The Treasury and Horse Guards           196
 10 View at the Entrance into Vaux Hall     216
 11 Wansted, the Seat of the Earl of }      247
      Tilney                         }
 12 Westminster and Walton Bridges          288
 13 Westminster Hall                        296
 14 A Gate belonging to the old Palace }    315
      of Whitehall                     }
 15 Windsor Castle                          326
 16 Plan of Windsor Castle                  353
 17 A Scene in Wooburn Farm                 361

[Illustration]




       *       *       *       *       *

TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES.

1. Silently corrected simple spelling, grammar, and typographical
     errors.

2. Retained anachronistic and non-standard spellings as printed.

3. The key to the marks used to show name derivations, which can be
     found at the start of the main text, has been copied from the first
     volume by the transcriber for the convenience of the reader.
     Punctuation for these codes has been standardised for consistency
     with other volumes. For example [1. Basinghall street.†] in place
     of [1. Basinghall street†.]

4. Pound, shilling and pence abbreviations (l. s. d.) are regularized
     to be italic, consistent with all other volumes.

5. Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation were made consistent.

6. The illustration on Page 114, [_Entrance into the Temple &
     Temple Bar._] and [_York Stairs._], has been changed to two
     separate illustrations by the transciber.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of London and its Environs Described,
vol. 6 (of 6), by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LONDON AND ITS ENVIRONS, VOL 6 ***

***** This file should be named 61279-0.txt or 61279-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/2/7/61279/

Produced by Brian Wilsden and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

